
Prepositions:
-------------------------
http://www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice/learningenglish/grammar/learnit/learnitv94.shtml
Which company does he work in? (not work at)
He is at home, at the shop, at college, at office (not in office), in hyd, in ap, in india, at a meeting,
He is at work/ play/ lunch/ dinner/ a party/at war
I saw u at the super market, place.
I first met him on a train. (In a train కాదు)
His name is not on the list (in the list కాదు)
I saw him in the TV (wrong) I saw him on the TV (correct)
I saw him in a TV show (correct)
There are fifty passengers on the plane
Is he on the team?
The house is on fire.
on cycle, on scooter, on bike, on camel, on elephant on horseback.
by train, by bus,by plane
The passenger at the back of the bus were safe. (not on the backof )
He bought these mangoes for Rs.200
He bought it at-50rs a kg.	
At 80rs a dozen.
 My watch is fast by five minutes 
 It's 8 by my watch ప్రకారం 
 If u go by his idea, u will be screwed up.
 
 at a distance of = దూరంలో 
 e r at a distance of 50km from hyd.
 
 blame for:

fight తర్వాత with రాదు  
Ex: I dont want to fight with him (wrong) I dont ant to fight him. (correct)
Comman, fight me.
All my life, i stood by ur side, fought ur enimies.
A man coudnt hold on to his wife. What business is that of mine?
He fought many wars as a soldier.
A. achlies only fights for himself.  B. I dont care abt a man's allegiance i care abt his ability to win battles.


The Rashtrapati Bhavan is an enormous
building.
Sita had enormous patience


Put away : to put some thing in a place where it is usually kept
Ex: Let me put these books away

Put down: to suppress the opposition.
Stalin put down any opposition ruthlessly ( నిర్దాక్షణంగా ).


fear తర్వాత about రాదు  
U dont have to fear tomorrow.
U have to fear the god.
She fears that I may put on weight
 It just gives me a pretext to enjoy
mangoes.

The goods in the Super Market are expensive.
The children are at school.
The children are in class.
We are sitting by the shop, by the tree, by the swimming pool( పక్కన )
He came in the morning/evening,afternoon
My mother gets up at 5 in the morning
I saw him in the park at 8 in the evening.
At midnight = రాత్రి 12 గంటలకు 
The train arrives hyd at midnight.
on the morning of Saturday i left for US.

this night, today night (wrong) tonight (correct)
I met him only this afternoon.
I have a bus tonight.
That, this, every, last, next వీటిల్లో ఏవైనా  morning, evening, afternoon, night  ముందు వాడితే  in, on ఏవి రావు 
Ex:
He came to me that morning
I sent it to him that afternoon
3) The doctor checks him up every morning
4) He left for Bangalore that night
5) He goes out 9 every night and comes back at
6) I wanted to meet him the next morning but I
was busy.

avert: తప్పటం /ఏదయినా చెడు జరగకుండా ఆపటం 
thankgod that the war was averted. తప్పినందుకు 
The divorce was averted.
Pull yourself together: కాస్త కుదుటపడు ముందు /తమాయించుకో 

Save (some one's) face: పరువు దక్కించుకోవటం 
He planned the murder to save his face in the society./fearing that he would loose his face in the society.
The knock of a century by Dhoni saved the face for India.


why are putting on a crying face? ఏడుపుమొహం పెడుతున్నావ్ 
Though i was frightened, i managed to put on a brave face.
porter:  a coolie in railway,busstands.
Carry some one through something: కష్టసమయాలలో  ముందుకు నడిపించటం , నెట్టుకురావటం 
If u lend me some money, it can carry me through this month.
Gandhi's tenacity ( పట్టుదల )carried him through the freedom struggle. 
his confidence carried him through to success.
 His determination carried him through the
difficult bowling and tight fielding to a century

carry out: to implement, to conduct.
The kings order has to be carried out.
carryout boss's order.
She is carrying out renovation work for the old mansion

We welcome politeness but Hari carries it
too far ( చాల ఎక్కువగ, అతిగా )
I am afraid it is carrying them too far
She is carrying out repairs / renovation work for the old mansion.
The government has set up a committee to carry out an enquiry into the accident
Tests have been carried out to...

bear (bair) -> bore -> borne 

You must bear resposibility of the child.
I cant bear those expenses.
I cant bear hot sun, cold.
 I can’t bear his conceit 
 Ur effrts finally bore friuits.
Since then she has borne a grudge against me ( ద్వేషం, కసి పెంచుకుంది )
I dont haveany grudge against u.
bear a grudge : దేశం, కక్ష కలిగివుండు  bear - bore - borne
she has borne a grudge against me ( దేశం, కక్ష పెంచుకుంది )
She bore a grudge against him.
 I bear no grudge against him
 The bridge is too weak to bear the weight
of heavy traffic.
 The blood on his body bears proof of some fight .
 Your weiry face bears the proof of ur tiredness.

A Mother is prepared to bear any hardship
for the sake of her children
Bear signature = సంతకంతో వున్నాయి 
The offerletters of Gazitted officers bear the signature of president.
U must get a letter bearing the signature of ur pricipal.
You received the money, you can't deny it. The receipt bears your signature.



Sonia carries a lot of influence in the party members.
The job of a Collector carries a lot of responsibility 
The position of the MD of company carries a good number of perks (other benefits like quarters,car,furnitureetc)
carried away: దేనివల్లనైన వాసం తప్పటం, మోజులో పడటం,  and to loose selfcontrol
You get carried a way by her glamour
Don't be carried away by her glamour.
Spectators got carried away / are carried away by the happenings in the match.

So carried away was he by his liking for the
film star that he was blind to her defects ( ఆ  filmstar మీద అతనికివున్న మోజులో ఆమె లోపాలేమి కనిపించలేదు )

Don't be carried away by his sweet words.( మోజులో పడకు ) He may deceive you
 

He came in jan/feb/,year,1998,
He came on saturday, sunday, aug1st
at the age of 16, at a young age, at the proper age, at an old age,
He appears to be below 30
I have lots of work at office.
He jumped above the wall (wrong)
He jumped over the wall ( కదలిక లోపికే అన్నప్పుడు over వాడాలి not above )
He died at an old age. When I was born he was above/over 55. Grand mother was below/ under 50.
We r wondering how energetic you would be at your yound age.
My position is below-that-of the Area Manager.


against:

about: గురించి 
on: కొంచెం పెద్ద, ముఖ్య విషయాల గురించి    అనేటప్పుడు  about బదులు  on వాడాలి 
Ex: 
He is talking about the college day
We are yet to take a decision about it
We read about him in the paper
They talked about their school days.
I do not remember any thing about it
A medical report about his health.

He is going to talk on decision making
It is essay on our democracy
It is a report on farmers suicides

wonder:  xyzరో అని అనుకొను  thinking how/when/why xyz 
Ex: 
Train ఎన్నింటికి వస్తుందో అని అనుకొను  I am wondering when the train will arrive.
ఆ వయసులో ఎలా వుంది వుంటారో అని అనుకొను  I wonder how energic he would be at his yound age. (thinking how )
I wonder how kindhearted he is! ఎంత kindo కదా!

angry with/angry at : both are correct
angry with somebody
angry at the some cause
Ex:  his father is angry with him at his postponing his marriage
 My father is angry at/about my low marks
 
marry:
He differs with his father over who he should marry (no need of to).
He is married to a rich woman.
His father insists that "he marry his" uncle's daughter.
I got married to her = I married her


Goods arrived by lorry

 Inspite of "my hurrying him", he took his own time to finish the work  

Dont blame me for it
Dont take everything on yourself.
My boss takes everything on himself.
She asked me to take my hands off it (not to interfere)
His business has taken off ( బాగా ఎదుగుతోంది)
Take office:  పదవిని చేపట్టటం 
YSR took office as CM in 2004 
 Ever since she took office, she has made
a number of changes in the administration
Take liberties with: చనువు తీసుకుని స్వతంత్రంగా వ్యవహరించటం 
Shall I take your car for a day? I am sure I can take the liberty.
Not all bosses let you take liberties with them (వాళ్ళతో చనువు ఇవ్వరు )
We can't take liberties with him as we used to, with his predecessor

made of , made from:
-------------------------
తయారైన వస్తువు (finished product) దేనితో తయారిందో కనిపిస్తూ ఉంటే use made of , else use made from
ఒకే రకానికి చెందిన కొన్ని వస్తువులతో తయారీచేసినప్పుడు  use made out of
This Table is made of wood
This table is made of plastic, i dont like it. Oh There they are sir. Of good teak and in a many of designs.
These pillows are Made from Sponge.
The sweet is made from flour and milk
Paper is made from waste material
The doctor made this medicine from some herbs. 
She made this art pice out of left over wooden pieces.
She made the curtain out of the sari

speak to/speak with:
---------------------------
1. "Speak To" is used when the speaker is speaking to a person or a group of people who just listen and are not expected to respond in any way (they can if they want though), like in a symposium.It implies a somewhat sense of authority and thus acceptable in formal situations.


2. "Speak With",on the other hand, is extremely formal. It is used when the person, the speaker is in conversation with, actually talks back or respond. It gives a sense of politeness. It is less assertive and implies dialogues rather than orders and thus acceptable in informal situations.

He spoke to the crowd.
He spoke with his friend. 

So, better to use speak with.

talk with (wrong) 
talk to  (correct)


think of & think about both correct, they can be used interchangably
thinking of meeting him.
lie to:
why did u lie to me hat he
had left for Chennai yesterday?
 I had thought so.

Never mind: ఏం ఫరవాలేదులే 
leftover: మిగిలిపోయిన 
passby : ప్రక్కగా 
Ex: I was passingby your house.
Many passedby the scene, but no one helped.
Wwhen the gunman shot at the thief it missed and hit a girl passing by. ( ప్రక్కగా వెళ్తున్న అమ్మాయి  )
I was sitting by mom.
There is a restaurant by the bank.
We already crossed bank. 
He is already past tiffin center. ( దాటి వేళ్ళు )
I saw you hurrying past our shop this morning. 
He is past the age of marriage.

Off: ఈ  preposition అర్ధం ఒకచోటనుంచి ఇంకొక చోటకి కదిలి వెళ్ళటం  
Ex: getoff the bike, bus,
Your top shirt button has come off
came off = ఊడి పోవటం, ఊడి రావటం 
Ex: His buttons came off.
take off
Ex: Takeoff ur shirt.
Take off your feet from on the table
off the team, off the screen
It was impossible to push my way through the crowd to get to him
Please pass the thread through the eye of the needle
Far off village
It is far off from hyd.
Let us not plan for far off places.

I'm afraid: సందేహాన్ని  తెలపటం, దేనినైనా మర్యాదగా లేదనటం 
Ex: Iam afraid i cant make it the party.
I am afraid i cant give it to u.
 I don't mind giving a call. I'm afraid I will forget

agree with = వ్యక్తి తో ఏకీభవించటం 
agree to = ఏదయినా proposal, request కి ఒప్పుకోవటం 
He agreed to stay for another day
She agreed to the proposal
I agree with you that he is the best player
attend తర్వాత ఏ  proposition రాదు 
Ex: Attend the collge, marriage.

We started at dawn,at dusk
He started for office (not start to office)
He started for wwork
When do you start for college? (everyday)
He left-for US. He left for office in the morning.
He ent to delhi from channia = He left Chennai for Delhi yesterday ( చెన్నై నుంచి ఢిల్లీ కి )
She left here yesterday (wrong) She left here yesterday = ఇక్కడనుంచి వెళ్ళింది 
I went to there (wrong) I went there (here,there కి  ముందు  ఎటువంటి  preposition రాదు )

some work, few items, some furniture, some news, a piece of news, 

knocked at the door.


See through = to understand, transparent
Film stars wear see through clothes
I can see
through your plan
See Off: to sendoff 
He saw him off at the station.
passout: 1) become unconscious
		2)  to comeout of a collegae after finishing the studies.

pass away: died


out of place = అసందర్భం గా వుంది 
Out of turn  = అసందర్భం గా, కోపం తెప్పించేటట్టు
Clapping hands and garlanding are out of place at a condolence meeting 
His jokes were out of place in such a serious situation
He was talking out of turn most of the time, as though he were drunk
 I hope I am not talking out of turn, but what
you are doing isn't good


good at: well comfortable and good at something
How good are you at Telugu? He is good at maths.
His is good at playing such gimmicks..
He is very good at describing things.

prefer to: I prefer being a home maker to being a job holder.
attend-to: చూడటం 
	to deal with something or someone
	We still have a number of other matters to attend to.
	He likes work that requires him to attend to a lot of detail.
	Please take a seat and I’ll ask someone to attend to you.
	Doctors tried to attend to the worst injured soldiers first.
	I always have so many things to attend to when I come into the office after a trip abroad.
	
	to deal with a task, problem, etc.:
	We have some urgent business to attend to.
	A recent study shows that they have failed to attend to clients' needs and demands.


[attend to someone] to serve a customer in a shop,bank, restaurant, hospital etc
	Are you being attended to?


Doctor is attending to patients..
Look-after : 
	1. to take care of someone or something and make certain that they have everything they need and do what is necessary to keep them healthy,safe,good condition.
	Ex: He was looked after by his grandma.
	
	2 take care of personally,professionalyy
		Ex: The bike was well looked after.
		He looks after my business.
		
	He is looking after my bike (correct)
	women who stay at home to look after children
	
	
	3 watch over
	 Can you look after/watchover my liquor, i am going to get my stuff?

across road: రోడ్డు అవతల పక్క  (the otherside of)
along the road: రోడ్డు వెంట , రోడ్డు మీద 
He met with an accident while crossing the road.
While he was walking across the road, a lorry knocked him down
Ex: Just across the road is an icecream shop.
My home is on the poosite side of the school (wrong) My home is just opposite the school (correct)
I usually walk along this road.
My home is across the road from the bank.
How can reach across the river? How can we cross the river?


turn up: రావటం, హాజరు కావటం 
I havebeen waiting for the bus for few hours, it hasnt turnedup.
I want u turnup in the office by 11 everydday.

go round: చుట్టూ తిరగడం 
Ex: I have been going round the unv for my OD, but no luck.
She moves about on a scooter - ఆమె స్కూటర్పై తిరుగుతుంటుంది 


move-about:అటు ఇటు తిరగటం 
I need to rent a bike as i have to move-about/roam around a lot. తిరగాల్సివుంది 
Realtors have to keep moving about different places.
wander about
taking a stroll
wade through:  to walk in water with great difficulty, to do something with great difficulty
Ex: We waded through lots of portion.
The officer had to wade through lot of files. 
I cant withstand cold. ( తట్టుకోవటం ). He withstood many ups and downs.


setout: ఎక్కడికైనా  బయల్దేరటం 
Ex: I am setting out for colleg now.
start for: 
I am starting for collge.
When are you starting for college?
for what (wrong ) what for? ( ఎందుకు? )
Have you forgotten?
The more we eat,the fatter we become



setup
often = frequently = తరచుగా 
on and off = మాటిమాటికి  Dont trouble me on and off.
rarely = occasionally
moreover/besides/on top of it It was raining, moreover there was powercut.
One man's meat is another man's poison
probably
perhaps
sure 
for sure
ofcourse
Indeed = నిజంగానే   It was indeed a  great fun.
 Indeed? నిజంగానా? 
certainly తప్పుకుండా
certainly not తప్పుకుండా కాదు
usually = generally  = మామూలుగా 
snap the fingers
sprain బెణుకు 
bruise దోక్కు పోవటం 
blister పుండు 
lid మూత 
tumbler గ్లాసు 
ewer ( యువ )  చెంబు 
utensils/vessels గిన్నెలు 
bake తినటానికి కాల్చటం 
blow the nose :చీదడం 
running nose: కారే ముక్కు 
stomach ache- stomach pain కాదు 
groan-బాధతో అరవటం 
fat book : పెద్ద పుస్తకం  not big book
gibber: ( జిబ)  కిచ కిచలు శబ్దం  
Ex: The gibber of monekey out there.
Housewife (outdated) Homemaker (latest)
creep:  పాకటం 
Ex: I feel something is creeping up my hand.
tall order : పెద్ద లిస్ట్  The heroin gives a tall order of items in the restaurant.
in good shape: to be healthy
Ex: we expect to see the applica in a good shape after the sprint.
How many are there in all? మొత్తం ఎంతమంది ?  inall = మొత్తం
riverside,
elegant: నాజూకు గా  వుండు 
soiled cloths=మురికి బట్టలు 
rags = పీలికలు 
The beggar is in rags
malinger=
catch word=ఊత పదం 
amuse= నవ్వు పుట్టించటం,  వినోదం కలిగించటం 
Ex: He amuses us with his jokes.
The boy in the girl's dress amused us
The way he talks annoys me కోపం కలిగిస్తుంది 
b) His silly jokes annoys us విసిగిస్తాయి 
c) Don't be annoyed కోప్పడకండి 
attic = అటక 

tidy up: సర్దుకోవటం , అమర్చటం 
Ex: we had moved into our new house and we were already busy tidying up our house.
My bro is good at tidying up things. వస్తువులు అమర్చటం లో 

tidy = ( ఇల్లు, గది, ఆఫీస్  ) ఉండవలసిన చోట అమరికగా ఉండటం 
untidy: వస్తువులన్నీ ఒక  order లో లేకుండా   చిందరవందరగా  ఉండటం
untidy hair = చిందరవందరగా ఉన్న జుట్టు 
untidy handwriting = గజిబిజిగా 
chatter = furniture - chairs, sofas, etc  చిందరవందరగా ఉండటం
Let me tidy up the home first
The room is so untidy, I just wonder how people can keep their places untidy. Even a chair out of place at home upsets me.
The whole place was in a mess ( ఇల్లంతా గందరగోళం గా వుంది ). I had neglected for two weeks. Nothing was in its proper place.
No. My table was untidy, with a lot of paper and books piled up or lying all over. 
The front room was a chatter of furniture.  ( furniture లాంటిది చిందరవందరగా ఉండటం )
Now that I tided up every thing I feel relieved. I gave the toilet a good wash. I cleaned up the cupboards and reset all things.
I cleaned the toilet very neatly (wrong).
I cleaned the cobwebs. I cleaned the kitchen, I made up the beds.పక్క సర్దటం  I washed the dishes. (washed utensils wrong!)
 Vessels = dishes = utensils

Speck of dust: దుమ్ము కణం 
Sultry: ఉక్కపోత  It is quite sultry out here.
Splash:  of water చల్లటం, చిమ్మటం 
He splashed water on the ground.
a splash of water made him conscious
Blood splashed all over the place as the
lorry hit him
The room is very stuffy. చాలా వేడిగా వుంది ( గాలి తక్కువగా వుంది )  Please open the windows.
నువ్వు ఏమైనా అనుకో  = Call it what you like = say whatever you like.
A: I like tidiness, but I am not very particular about it ( పట్టింపు ) You overdo things.
B: Call it what you like\ say whatever you like. I am upset when I see even a speck of dust.
A: U seem to have some medical condition.
B:  I don't mind your saying so.

I shall be happy/glad/delighted to see him
WWe shall be in hyd tomorrow.
wwhat for? ఎందుకు 
can you hear? వినపడుతుందా?
During the marriage, He was seen in a startling white kurta.

happen to = by accident
by chance = by accident
We met by chance.
Have u seen my book by any chance?
if u happen to see him, etme know.


house vs home:
-------------------
I have a house in hyd, ut iam livingith my family in guntur. So my home is in guntur, my house is in hyd.
My right hand ached the whole of yesterday (= all yesterday) ( Not all day yesterday )
use all day = all through the day instead of whole of day.

 Good heavens = బాబోయ్ !, u must wash ur face.
 Letup: తగ్గటం, తగ్గించటం, ఈదిన ప్రయత్నం తగ్గించటం 
  Will there be no let up in the rain?
 The rain didnt subsided till late night = The rain didnt letup till..
 There was no letup in her fever
 We r not going to letup our efforts.
 
 
Mirage: ఎండమావి 
pit = గొయ్యి 
సమయస్ఫూర్తి  = resourcefulness
ఎంగిలి  = left overs
ఉమ్ము  = spittle
పౌర్ణమి = full moon
అమావాస్య  = new moon
పంచభూతాలు  = The 4 elements  (earth, air, fire and water)
unless = if not 
unless u work hard, u cant crack it.
where else = ఇంకెక్కడా 
who else = ఇంకెవరు 
when else = ఇంకెప్పుడు 
how else = ఇంకెలా 
Your face is beaming = మీ ముఖం వెలిగిపోతుంది 
She was beaming with delight to know her daughter topped the class
His face lit up when I gave him the news
She was positively glowing with pride
 The faces of the bangladesh players glowed with pride as they beat India
 they were gloating over my not getting it  : శత్రులు మీద విజయం పొందినపుడు, వాళ్ళు విఫలమైనప్పుడు పొందే ఆనందం , కసితీరా నవ్వుకోవటం 
  Duryodhana and Sakuni were gloating when they saw the Pandavas walking to the forest
  She was gloating over her rival's disappointment
  They gloated over the fact that their enemy lost too
  
  
A nine day's wonder : మూన్నాళ్ళ ముచ్చట , తాత్కాలికంగా సంచలనం, ఆశ్చర్యం కల్గించే విషయం 
Her acting career was a nine day's wonder 
Hope the boy cricketer will not pass off as a nine day's wonder
a) He died in an accident = He was killed in an accident
b) If you drive so rashly you will die/ you will be killed.
	

How else should i make u understand?
When else will learn etiques?

For all that he cares, I am suffering ( అయితే వాడికేం?)
For all that I care (idont care), he might have lost a lot of money.


Her word carries a lot of weight. 
The IAS job carries a lot of responsibilities.

carried away: మోజులో పడి పోవటం 
Don't be carried away by her glamour

care to: used to offer something food...
ould u care to have soem coffe?

care for: to love.
I care for my children.
She cares for her bro.

She is squint eye. 
Cast of feautres- -  ఆకార స్వరూపం , కను ముక్కు తీరు  
Ex: a) She has a wondeful/ beautiful/ fine cast of features -
b) Her cast of features is attractive/ Charming

Cast of mind - నెమ్మదస్తుడు 
He has a gentle cast of mind - నెమ్మదస్తుడు 
I like the beautiful cast of her nose/mouth/..etc - ఆమె ముక్కు ఆకారం నాకు ఇష్టం 

A clay cast of Lord Vinayaka. పోతలో పొసే అచ్చు 
Plaster of Paris cast:
He is moving about with a plaster of paris cast around his elbow. 
6) Cast of a net. చేపల వాలా విసురుడు 
A Single cast brought in a hundreds of fish 
Cast of an eye - చూపు విసురుడు 
A cast of her evil eye would make many shiver in fear
Cast (verb) =  విసరటం  – transitive - దేన్నయినా విసరటం 
Cast a look = చూపు విసురుడు 
Cast an eye over/ some thing = దేనివిపన్న చూడడం 
Cast a spell = మంత్రముగ్దుల్ని చేయటం 
Cast a vote = ఓటు వేయటం 

cot wind is blowing. = చలి గాలి 
You can't hide your tonsured head,టాన్ షడ్ can you?
We finished our ablutions స్నానాదికాలాన్ని  by 8 and left for temple. 
Did you have a dip in the Pushkarini
My pilgrimage to Kasi was very fulfilling ( తృప్తిగా )
 You make frequent pilgrimages
to Shirdi.
He left yesterday on a pilgrimage
for/ to Kasi
A pilgrimage to Kasi in the older days used to be on foot
He makes a pilgrimage to Kasi every year 
My father is on a pilgrimage.
On my pilgrimage to Sabarimala, I visited
Guruvayuru
consort = wife of a god/ husband of a goddess. ( they are not called wife/husband)
) Padmavati is the consort of Lord
Venkateswara.
b) Mallikarjuna is the consort of
Bhramaramba.
Worship = ఆరాధించటం, పూజించటం 
Ex: We worship sai
I begin any work only after my worship.
She is very devout.చాలా భక్తి కలది 
 pious = payas = భక్తి కలది 
 She is a pious woman, He is not so pious as his wife.
 Thyagaraja and Bhaktha Ramadas had
great devotion to Lord Rama
The devout old man spends most of his time
in the temple
 chanting of mantras, vedas, ete: 
 
 Sanctity = పవిత్రత 
a) Smoking and alcohol are banned in holy
places to preserve their sanctity

ఎన్నవ / ఎన్నో ప్రధాని ?
No direct meaningin english but u can say the following:
where do you come among
your brothers and sisters
a) Where is Dr. Manmohan Singh among/ on
the list of the PMs of India? 
b) What is the ordinal of Dr. Manmohan Singh
among the PMs of Inida?

One and a half year is a long period. (wrong) One and a half years is a long period. (right)
nibble: కొంచెం కొంచెం గా తినీ తిననట్టు తినటం 
When you are on a full stomach, you nibble
She has puton some weight.
He is stout = లావు + పొట్టి 
He is fat
బొద్దుగా  = plump She is plump.
Big eater vs poor eater



 trains are running lately(wrong)
  trains are running late(right)
Lately = recently/ of late
I haven't seen him lately/ of late 
 
 On 80s bell bottom pants were in vogue( fashion)
 
 Vague: uncertain

actions:
-------------------
beat/thrash/slam/batter/hit/bash up
steal/rob/sneak/overheard
smile/laugh/weep/grim/mourn/grin/groan/giggle/grunting/chuckle/grin/gruel/gasping/sniff/sneezing/whoozing/
murmering/panting/sighing/shouting/yelling at/sniffiling/tremble/screaming


expensive = very costly
scorching = very hot
hefty fines/

sorrowful/sad/grim
happy/glad/delighted
furious/angry/wiked/rude
rude/humble/kind/nice/

Temporary Mental state:
-------------
sorrowful/sad/grim/worry/pitiful/shameful/admire
happy/glad/delighted/overjoyed/mesmorized/ashamed/
furious/angry/wiked/annoyed/frustrated/eager/embarresed
rude/humble/kind/nice/dismay/anguish KTR on prnay's murder: dismayed & anquished on how deep rooted the castism still is.
vexed with/bored of/in dibelief


Person's characterstics:
-----------------------
rude/humble/kind/nice/wicked/quarrelsome/brave/courageous/sluggish/foolish/charismatic/energetic
admirable/adorable/believes in charity/philanthropic/lovable/super friendly/greedy
envious/jealous/greedy/coward/trustorthy/trustful
kind/generous
pretty/gorgeous/stunning/outspoken/straightforward/
talkative/bold/witty/good presense of mind/empathetic/respectable/
adamant/stubborn/thoughtful/piece-loving/courtly/trusting/grateful/ungrateful/unthankful
modest: నిగర్వి 
They aren't fair minded అంత మంచివాళ్ళు కాదు  /సరయిన మనస్తత్వం కలవారు కాదు 
flexible*rigid

loyal/faithful/obedient/diobediant/modest/softspoken

Ex: She envies her sister.

Ex: I had enough beating. I dont want any more beatings from ur master.
He was beaten to the ground/death
Village women thrashes illicit liquor sippliers
Teacher thrashed a student with stick in the classroom.
He single handedly bashes up hundreds of goons.

happen to, come across, bum into, run into:

by way of: ఆ విధంగా 
We had bread and fruit by way of lunch
He succeeded by dint of/ by means of his hard work

Spree: (ఏదయినా సరదా ) మితి మీరు చేయటం 
Ex: Spending/shopping spree

go together : ఒకదానితో ఒకటి పొసగటం 
Communism and capitalism do not go together
Biryani and sambar/ chutney do not go
together
go along with (some one) = to agree with
I go along with you there; Tendurlkar is certainly a great player
I go along with you upto the point that Tendulkar is a great player but not beyond that

 go through
 He is going through tough times/lot of troubles.
 
 go/goes: నడుస్తుంది, చెల్లుతుంది, ok
 Ex: Dont worry about what u wear, anything goes.
 Anything goes in politics.
 
 
 go by: ప్రకారం చూస్తే 
 Going by the land prices in Hyderabad it will be impossible for us to buy sites there
 Going by his appearance, he appears to be good
 Going by what he says, he is not interested in the game
 
 Not go well with = పడదు, రుచించదు, నచ్చదు 
 My being elected leader did not go well with him
 Others using his bike doesn't go well with him 
 
 go off: 
 The power went off 
 
 go bad : ఏదయినా ఆహారం పాడైపోవటం, కుళ్ళటం  get spoiled
 The biryani went bad by the next day eventhough it was refrigirated.
 The food has gone bad.
 Vegetables get bad so easily in hot weather.
 She became sick after eating the bad
curry. bad sambar

go broke/be broke: డబ్బులు అస్సలు లేకపోవటం 
The recent cyclone washed off his crop. He went broke upto his neck in debts, he took his life.
I am broke, can u lend me 10rs.  

Hardly did the peon ring the bell when the
boys left the class = Scarcely did the peon
ring the bell when the boys left the class =
No sooner did the peon ring the bell than
the boys left the class = As soon as the
peon rang the bell the boys left the class 
3. Scarcely had the game started when it
began to rain.
4. No sooner had he heard the news than he
started off.
5. Hardly had I finished the work when the
picture started.
6. Barely had I gone there when he went out.





 A long trek of around 45 km up the hill
and down the valley through the jungle,
across fords and burns. (ford: వాగు  , burn: పిల్లకాలువ)


****************************************
Dec06 is still pending, just check!
 
 Keep X go bad:
 ------------------
 Tirupati Laddus keep for more than a week if you keep them in the fridge.
 
 enter, enter into, enter in:
 -----------------------------
  Enter a place (room, college, town, etc)
b) enter into a conversation/ discussion/ agreement
1. Entering into the new session ÉC correct
2. We are entering into London - wrong 
We are entering London - correct
He entered the room correct
3. Take permission before enter into the room - wrong
Take permission before you enter the room - correct.
India entered into an agreement with America - correct

She entered the room and found her friend there
She entered into a conversation with her neighbour 
They entered into an argument with the shop keeper
a) The clerk entered the amount in the accounts book
b) They entered his name in the list of criminals



Great description of something:
--------------------------------
startling, sparkling, tranquil, marvellous, glorious, splendid, spectacular, picturesque,mesmorizing
exquisite art work, glittering, stupendous, terrific (dont confuse ith terrible)
gruesome murder,heinous crimeEx: The perpetrators of this henious crime shall e punished

frightening/flawless/spotless/brutal/
pathetic/

a fierce love story

fatal: మరణానికి కారణమయ్యే 
terrible: ఘోరమైన , భయంకరమైన,  దారుణమైన 
Im in a terrible mess.
I was walking down the road. ( రోడ్డు వెంబడి )
 A car driving over a puddle splashed the mud on me. ( నీళ్ల గుంత  )  Muddy puddles ( బురద గుంత )
henious:
shameful
Shrewd : చాల తెలివైన/సూక్ష్మంగా ఆలోచించే 
He is a shrewd politician



exemplary
offenders/goons/mob/herd/crowd of masses/masses/
phenominal success
Meek = humble = సాధు స్వభావం

take to : begin or fall into the habit of/to make habbit of
		  to form/develop a liking for/get on with
		  Ex: Have u taken to boxing or what?  బాక్సింగ్ గట్టా మొదలెట్టావా ఏంటి? 
			I have recently taken to vaping.
			She never had taken to him.
			
I want our boy to stand first in the
class

 get on someones nerves:  to make them angry
 Dont get on my nerves.
 He makes sure that he never gets on anyones nerves.
 
Never use +ing with feelings, even though it is happening rightnow:
-------------------------------------------------------------------

I envy ur dress. 
I am doubting if he comes.(wrong) I doubt he comes.(correct)
R u understanding? (wrong) Do u understand? (correct)
What r u thinking ? (wrong) What do u think? (correct)
What does he think of himself?
I am not remembering his name (wrong) I don't remember his name (correct)
5. Why do you forget things like this?
6. Why do you doubt him?
7. I do not feel like studying here.
8. He does not understand me properly.
9. Does she think of going home now?
10. Does he suppose that he is the greatest of all?
11. He doesn't like your behaviour.
12. Don't you believe my words/ Do you doubt my words?
13. Why do you prefer coffee to tea? 
He lives nearby. He lives in a nearby town.
It seemed to be expensive, but i realized it is not.
He appears (is appearing కాదు ) to be a good fellow
Wwe are all set to head to Goa?
The committee comprises four members/Four members comprise the committee. 
Where does he live? (Where is he living కాదు ).
They live here (They are living here కాదు ).
They do not live here any more (They are not living కాదు).
I need your help now (am needing కాదు ).
They do not need it now (They are not needing కాదు ).
Why does she need it now? (Why is she needing it కాదు ).
He seems (is seeming కాదు) to be a bad fellow.
He does not seem to be interested in it (is not seeming కాదు).
The curry is smelling good. (wrong) smells good (correct)
The curry is tasting good.(wrong) tastes good (correct)
I am tasting the curry to check on how good it came off. (correct)




Other Sentense corrections and clarifications:
-------------------------------

She insisted that we go to the exhibition.. ( పట్టుపట్టింది  )
She was childish to be attracted by every silly thing in
there and "that delayed our returning home."
Parents are usually anxious about childeren not being in on time.
I told her to face that she was a crook. ( తన మోహనే అన్నా)
Does it mean you aren't on talking terms? మీకిద్దరికి మాటలు లెవా ?
not on talking terms: పోట్లాట వల్ల మాటలు లేకపోవటం 
They are not on talking terms now.
How can u r't on talking terms?  Your homes face each other and you have to be seeing each other every so often. తరచూ ఒకరినొకరు చూసుకోవాలిసి వస్తుంది 
u have to see vs u have to be seeing?
She has even started making faces at me. వెక్కిరించటం కూడా
She doesn't hesitate to tell people to their face what she thinks of them.
She told the minister to his face that she hates politicians

face off:  తగాదా, గొడవ, పోట్లాట 
The face off between the brothers was over property matters
The face off తగాదా  between the wife and the husband has gone too far for a divorce to be averted.


Supposing that he comes here, what will you do?
Suppose he is armed, will you fight with him?
Supposing that a minimum edu-qua is prescribed for voters, won't that improve the situation?

wrong:
Since when u started waking up early ?
Since when u r working here?

right: used in questions to show that you are very surprised or angry
Since when r u waking up early ?
Since when r u working here?
Since when are you in charge around here?
Since when have you been interested in my feelings?


The car a family was travelling in rammed a truck
from behind. Two of them were
killed. One was seriously injured.
That really was heart rending.


I am watching Tajmahal (correct)
I am seeing Tajmahal (wrong)
I am looking at Tajmahal (correct)

Nowadays I find myself drawn to art, in particular to oil paintings.

while returning from office, i caught sight of a old man lying on the road with no cloths on him.
I caught bad cold this morning.
he caught hold of the thief as he grabbed the suit case.

 as if = as though

He is only a back bencher in the party.
Save yourself the trouble: నువ్వేమి అంత కష్టపడక్కర్లేదులే 
back off: వెనక్కితగ్గు 
get off me: నా మీద నుంచి లే 
get ur hands off me: మీద నుంచి చెయ్ తీ 
take off : why r u taking off ur cloths
take ur eyes off her.
 He was not able to take his eyes off her
black law: any law that is not good/harmful to ppl/society
call on: to call somebody to home
call upon: very formal to invite somebody to speak in a meeting.
The PM called on the FM to discuss the matter.
I call upon our CM to speak a few words.
prospects: oppurtunities
Dont bunk office freuesntly, this may affect ur future propects.
be all eyes: ఒళ్ళంతా కళ్ళు చేసుకుని, కళ్లప్పగించి చూడు 
 Supriya was all eyes as she saw Pratap approaching
 What are you all eyes for? 
 We were all eyes as the magician . 
 
 With that experience, you can crack a high paying job with ur eyes closed ( కళ్ళు మూసుకుని జాబ్ కొట్టొచ్చు )
 You did a splendid job!
 
 You're being unduly మరీ/అనవసరంగా  apprehensive. భయాందోళనతో వుండు 
 

caring: to show love
care for: to love
she cares for her bro. 
He is a caring husband.

Try as I might : no matter how much i try: however much i try
Try as I might, i am unable to control it.

Distance lend charm to the eyes.





Say vs Tell:
=====================
-->Say and tell are more or less is the same, but there is a lot of difference in the way we use them. The difference is very important.
-->Say is always followed by to, before the person to whom something is said.
eg: He said to me, she said to him.
-->Tell is never immediately followed by to.
--> We use say, when we repeat some one's words. She said, 'Go away'.
-->Tell always is followed by a person as its object. She told him to/ She told him that ... etc.
-->Say can be used without mentioning the person to whom some thing is said.
a) He says that he is hungry.
b) Kumar said to me that he would go with me.
-->Tell is always followed by the person to whom something is said.
-->Suseela often tells me that she likes Vijayawada.
-->Say is often used to repeat the words of someone.
a) Ramana said, "I am hungry".
b) Ramana said that he was hungry.
-->'Tell' express commands; 'say' doesn't. 
The officer told him to get out.
-->'Say' is never followed by the infinitive (to go, to come, etc).
He told me to go.
He said that I should go.




 The bakery we buy our cakes from is closed - which bakery?
 We have adjust the cakes we have at home.  - which bakery?
are they enough for all the friends we are going to have for the party?  - which firends?
The time I told our friends to come at is 5.30
The knife with which you cut the fruits is sharp (old)
The knife you cut the fruits with is sharp (latest)
This is the channel on which I saw the programme. (old fashioned). 
This is the channel I watched the programme on.
He is the leader every one admires. ( not Whom everyone admires ).
That is a movie every one must see.( not Which every one must see )
The car he travels by is expensive. (The car by which he travels,- old fashioned)


A book exhibition is going to be held in town next month

i will collect those books u wanted from the shop on my way.
sarala and i went to college.
krishna,ram, sam, and i went on a tour to goa.

they want the marriage to be a grand affair.

He wanted us to go for a movie.
 everyone thinks so about their mechanics. but  my mechanic is n't that type.


with "as":
Strong winds blew as it rained cats and dogs


The police have arrested him; They arrested
him last week

A news, A good/ a bad news --- wrong
a piece of goog/bad news/some news/any news -- correct

By the time i reached counter it had been already closed, i shuld have started off early enough.
On the midway, i found that my bike had runout of petrol..

Why the hell don't you listen? 


I have had enough. My stomache is full (wrong) I am on a full stomach.
rather: మనకి ఇష్టం లేని ఒకదాని కంటే, బదులు 
I'd rather work hard than copying = Rather than copying i'd ork hard.
Rather than building the house on your own, u can have some contractor do it for u. 
I'd rather not see movies than see such movies 
Rather than go to a matinee in this hot sun, I will sit at home and watch the TV
He'd rather have a cooled drink than coffee

 The flyover
under construction is holding up
the traffic. Vehicles were moving
at a snail's pace. Even the construction of the flyover is at a snail's pace. 

There's a
small problem - a complaint from
our head office - one of the
reports we sent last week, they
say, is at odds with the one we
had sent earlier. 

He has a heart of gold
The guy has a heart of stone.
Take to heart: u seem to have taken to heart what he said.
I feel that you take things too much to heart
I caught my breath when I saw a dog carrying a infant wwith its mouth (ఊపిరి ఆగిపోయినంతపనయింది ).
my heart missed a beat when I got the news ( గుండె ఆగినంత పనయింది ) 
My heart really sank when I saw you so upset( నా గుండె  జారిపోయింది )
The thief's heart sank as he saw the police on the scene
 Don't lose heart : dont be upset.
 It's disheartening that he is not coming ( నిరాశగావుంది )
 It is heartening that u also coming. ( ఉత్సాహంగా వుంది )
 I never thought she could be so hard hearted
 Sensitive people take even the slightest criticism to heart
 A heart to heart talk with my colleague
ended all our misunderstandings ( మనసు విప్పి మర్మం లేకుండా మాట్లాడు )
We had a hearty laugh ( మనసారా నవ్వుకును)
It has been many yrs since she had a hearty laugh.
heart rending:  The sight of the accident was heart rendering. ( హృదయ విదారకమైన )
heart wrenching: The sight of the accident was heart wrenching. ( హృదయ విదారకమైన )
We left the place with heavy hearts ( బరువెక్కిన హృదయాలతో )


I went out of the way to make it a success.
I threw/put my heart and soul into it.


pass comments:


Illegal: Against law as found in statute books (books like civil and criminal procedure code according to which courts give judgments), anything the Government has banned, or against court orders

Drugs/ Weapons banned by law are illegal drugs/ weapons.
It is illegal to marry another person without divorcing one's wife / husband 
Having/ using weapons banned by law is ILLEGAL. 

Unlawful: Against law in general, not only against law as found in statute books, in court or in government orders, but also
against rules as followed by people

Unjust:

It is unlawful to occupy others property.
If such an occupation continues even
after court orders the person to vacate it,
it is ILLEGAL.

Illegitimate: Anything against established rules and practices ( నిబంధనలకు విరుద్ధంగా, ఏ పద్ధతి లేకుండా చేసేవి )is illegitimate
Children born to an unmarried couple are illegitimate children.
Children born of an illicit love affair are illegitimate children.

Illicit: Not allowed by law, and not approved by society. 
Illicit drugs are drugs manufactured against law, without the permission of law. 
The supply, without permission, of weapons, or manufacture, without permission, of weapons is illicit supply and
manufacture of weapons; such weapons are illicit weapons. There is an element of secrecy about it. 
An illicit love affair is a love affair not approved by society.

Lawless: (of a country or an area) where laws are not followed or obeyed. 
(of people) who do not have any respect for law.
A lawless area/ place is an area or place
where laws are not followed or obeyed;
where people have no respect/ fear of law.
Lawless people are people who have no respect for law or fear of law. eg: terrorists,Maoists, etc. 

Villages and other places under the control of Maoists are lawless areas
Maoists are lawless people- they have no respect for law



How about a bite? 
They are "sipping coffee sitting in" their garden
"Nothing like" sipping hot coffee "on a cold evening" like this.
gulp = గుక్క 
The food was terribly hot, i had to gulpdown many glasses of water.
He drank it in one gulp.
The chilli is so hot in guntur.
The wind blewoff the lamp. It blewedoff several trees.
My god! there was knee-deep water on most roads, and I waded through. The drains were overflowing. Mst crops ere under water.
heavy rain, strong winds
string winds blewoff few trees and hoarding on the rooftops in the city.
I saw atleast two of the hoardings "lying in the water on the road"
									
When she swa the police he sweat = The sight of the police made him sweat.
It rained all through the night.
They were all alone at home through the day.

 I'll have your cloths washed and sent home to you in the evening
U seem to be tootally drenched, take this towel and wipeurself dry.
Yeah, I was totally drenched and my cloths are wet and dripping.
what a downpour!why did u comeout in such a downpour? ( జడివాన )
It had been drizzling in the morning, so i started out. But miday there was this cloudburst (ఉన్నట్టుండి కురిసే జడివాన ) and it has soaked me to the bone.
Your cloths are still dripping. (బొట్లు బొట్లు గా కారుతున్నాయి ). Take off those and puton some warm clothing.
THere have been showers at various places in the stste. Many roads have been washed away.( కొట్టుకుపోయాయి  )
It is raining cats and dogs.
The cloudburst has drenched me totally i may catch cold.
నిన్నంతా వర్షం పాడతాది అని అనుకుంటూనే వున్నా  = The whole of yesterday I expected it would rain (correct)

Typhoid is catching 
Tears are catching
You may catch maleria
Catch up = పోటీల్లో, గేమ్స్ లో ముందున్న వాళ్ళను సమీపించటం , ఇంకొకరితో సమానమవ్వటం 

Eventhough India is ahead of China in software, China is catching us up.
He has out done the others in the company but the others are catching him up.
India can never catch up with Japan in technology.
Caught in rain I was returning home late at night. 
I caught my breath when I saw a dog carrying a infant wwith its mouth (ఊపిరి ఆగిపోయినంతపనయింది ).
When the man given up for dead ( చనిపోయాడనుకుని వదిలేసిన మనిషి ) appeared, the villagers caught their breath.
I am sure he will catch his breath if I tell him that he has been selected


We can't fault them for that. ( తప్పుపట్టటం= blame)

knotty problem: చిక్కు సమస్య 
knot: ముడి 
The predominant moment in hindu marriages is, bride tying an yellow thread to the brides neck with 3 knots.

I despair when I think of the future of the country. ( నిరాశ చెందు )



He was too much young. (wrong) He was much too young. (correct)
I wont rest till i have burnt troy. (till i burnt troy vs have burnt troy)
May the gods keep the wolves in the hills and the wwomen in ur beds.
Oh, God! a lorry had
hit a boy on his cycle. Believe me, the
boy and his cycle flew into the air and
landed on the road. The boy hit the ground head on ( తల రోడ్డుకు తగిలేలా  hit the road on his head ). Blood spilled all over.
In no time a large crowd gathered.  The body is lying there in a pool of
blood. I was unable to bear the sight
any longer. I came away. Poor boy.  I can't bear to see it again.

I fought a goon ( గుండా ) trying to abduct a child. He caught me on the chin ( గడ్డం మీద తగిలేలా కొట్టాడు , గడ్డం మీద తగిలింది ). 
I hit back and landed a nice blow on his cheek. చెంప మీద తగిలేలా కొట్టాను 
He intentionally landed several blows on his already wounded elbow.

thug: దుండగుడు 
goon: గుండా
 The thug caught him squarely ( తిన్నగా ) on the face.
 He caught me on the chin.
 When i fell down from the byk, i fell hands on and it caught me on my elbow) కింద పాడేటప్పుడు చేతుల మీద పడ్డాను, మోచేతి మీద దెబ్బ తగిలింది 
 He caught the boy on the ribs.
He caught him on the injured arm again and again 


throw up: vomit
I threw up all the food i had eaten.
The child is throwing up the milk

The climate here doesn't agree with me


గుద్దుకోను, ఢీ కొను   = hit, crash into, ram, run into
The lorry hit the cyclist.
The truck crashed into the bus.
The truck rammed the bus.
The truck ran into the bus from behind/rammed the bus from behind.
The car crashed into a tree.
The vehicle ran over the boy
The lorry knocked down the man.కొట్టేసింది 
He suffered/sustained injuries
It is difficult for any one to survive such injuries

sooner or later
sooner or later they r going to terminate him.
Before I get the sack, i will resign. : (get the sack to be terminated)
 he has an itching palm
 It has got to do with our familiy's pride.
 He has got/had a raw deal. (get/have a raw deal:  అన్యాయం జర గటం  )
 Education had a ra deal in terms f funds allocation.
 get/ have the go-by: ఉపేక్షణకి గురి అవ్వటం, పక్కన  పెట్టబడటం  to ignore/keep aside someone 
 He got the goby.
 Eventhough he outperforms well, he gets the goby bcoz of his attitude.
 He tried his hands at singing too, but he burnt his fingers ()
 Defeat has become a
matter of habit for the India.
Ganguli was sacked/ fired/ given the
sack/ got the sack/
My wife's choice prevailed. ( నెగ్గింది, గెలిసింది )
your wife is different in that she chooses even clothes for you.
To get one's way with/ to have one's way
with : మనం  అనుకున్నది నెగ్గటం , మాట చెల్లటం, పొందగలగటం.
 If I had got my way, i would've bought a house.
 You can't get your way/ have your way in all matters
 Sonia gets her way with party.
My
claims for promotion have been
overlooked
I hit the road hands on.

get your say: ఒకరి అభిప్రాయాన్ని వ్యక్తపరచడం  
Didn't you get your say in the matter.
Please let me have/ get my say before we decide 
In a democratic country, everyone has got their say in the matters of public interest.( ప్రజలుకు  సంబంధించిన )
Some parents don't allow their children
to have/ get any say about their careers


under/below/beneath & above/over:
======================================
a) We can see the fish swimming below
the surface of water.
b) A constable is below a sub inspector
c) The window is below the ceiling
Beneath means immediately under (covered up)
a) His body lay beneath a heap of stones
b) Beneath the book lay a Rs. 1000/- note.
Difference between below and beneath:
below: at lower level anywhere.
beneath: Immediately/
just under.
a) Hanging on the wall
was a picture below a
map = The picture
could be any where
below the map.
b) The map lay beneath a newspaper =
The newspaper was just above/ covering the map.
underneath = almost the same as beneath
= Immediately under/ below something
when it car or hides it.
a) The ball rolled underneath the standing car = The car covered the ball
under it.
b) He was wearing a shirt underneath the
sweater.
under = below something.
a) They sat under a tree. (Physical position)
b) The country is under UPA rule now and
the state, under congress rule = under
the control of.
under = below, when we say, 'It may cost
under Rs. 10000/- or below Rs. 10,000/-
ii) On = just above something.
a) The book is on the table. (The table supports the book.)
b) over = anywhere above, some height
above.
a) He jumped over the wall


 I happen to be the older, so they blamed me for letting her come late.
 Being older, they blamed me (wrong)

wonder: use it in place of think.
If u r wondering why he did it that way..
They r at home all alone the whole day(not throughout the day). I wonder if they had some food in the afternoon.
Mom must be wondering where I am
I always wonder how he manages the livelyhood of the whole familiy with such a low salary.

 I wish to see you off at the station
 Hope it isn't any thing serious, doctor?
I myself ( నాకే ) do not know when I am going to start. ( valid! taken from eenadu)
 he said (that) he would help me.
As for me so long as things are good
to eat, it makes no difference to me
what I eat

gag:  నోరు నొక్కేయటం 
muzzle: 1. కుక్కలు కరవకుండా వాటి మూతికి కట్టేవి   2. నోరు నొక్కేయటం 
 Govt attempted to gag the media.
 
back off: వెనక్కు తగ్గింది 
The govt backed off.

turn ones back on: వెనుతిరగటం, తిరస్కరించటం , విముఖత చూపించటం, వ్యతిరేకించటం 
Her friends turned their back on her
because of her conceit  ( గర్వం  )
The people turned their back on the  gov because of its indifference to farmers


i) Reminisce = To think, talk or write about the
happy or pleasant things of the past.
a) As we entered our college years after we
has left it we reminisced about our student
days there.
b) He reminisced about a pleasant week that
he had at the small village.
ii) Recollect : Remember something, especially
by trying to remember it/ by making an effort
to remember it.
a) Try as he might he was
unable to recollect what
happened on the day of
the accident.
b) I recollect everything of
what he said on the day
of the incident.
Recollect is rather old fashioned and formal
and not much in use in modern English. It is
not used either in am + ing/ is + ing/ are + ing
form.
iii) Recount = narrate/ describe an incident/
an experience.
a) She recounted to the police what she had
seen at the accident spot (= She told the
police)
b) he recounted in detail his experience of
the space travel.

call off: to cancel.
They called off the meeting.

call out: బిగ్గరగా పిలవటం 
 When i saw her getting into the bus, I called out to her.
She called out to her father for help  ( బిగ్గరగా  అరిచింది )

call in: doctor, police, fire service లను పిలవటం.
We called in police.

call upon: to ask/invite someone so fromally to speak
I call upon or honr CM to speak a few words.

call it a day: to finish something
It was ten at night when we called it a day
After they played 30 overs, they called it a day.


ఆమె నా గురించి ఏమనుకుంటుందని   మీరు అనుకుంటున్నారు? 
What do u think she thinks about me?
Would you mind/ Mind waiting for a
while? 
The flight services disrupted due to heavy rains. ()
I
have a strong feeling that some
of them can't be implemented
here as soon as they want them
to be.

Please hear me out ( పూర్తిగా విను )
It is so mean ( చాలా నీచం )  to stoop down to such a low level.

get someone under ones thumb: అదుపులో పెట్టుకోవటం  
US office always want to get us under their thumb.

get/ have the full ear of someone: పూర్తిగా చెప్పటం , వినిపించటం 
Ex: Mom always complains she can't get the
full ear of my dad.
I amanaged to get the full ear of our director in the matter.
I am more of a technical guy than a funtional guy.

run out of= ఏదయినా అయిపోవటం 
If u are fast, You will run out of ideas and words before the time gets elapsed.
My bike has/ I have run out of petrol
I've run out of cash, so take this
India is running out of its oil resources
I am running out of patience =
The minute we run out of gas we get the blues ( దిగులు పుట్టటం )  Ex: exam blues
She has pregnancy blues
He has started having summer blues 
As the month of March approaches, most businessmen get tax blues 

The developes get the hit first (worst hit) if any change in the process. They get the worst of weak procedures.

get it straight: get it sorted out తేల్చుకొవటం, straight గా చెప్పటం , 
Ex: I am going to get it straight whether i am getting gas connection.
 I didn't get a wink of sleep last night ( కంటి మీద కునుకు లేదు )
 The new police had the gangsters in the city not to get a wink of sleep.

take /have soemone by storm: ఒకళ్ళని బాగా ఆకర్షించటం 
She took me by storm. 
Tendulkar took the world by storm by being the youngest to score a century.

Take a beating = Have a beating : దెబ్బ తిన్నది 
Of late, his reputation has taken a beating.

Protest, నిరసన తెలపటం,  argue and haggle బేరమాడటం as you like they have their way and you are helpless
For a cylinder full of gas we have to run around places. ( ఎన్ని చోట్లకి పరిగెట్టాలో )

Would you care for some coffee?
what r u thinking about me? (correct, but if u mean to ask about his character in general then this is wrong)
what do u think about me
thnk about = think of :
think over, think through 

think of: recalling something specific, to express opiniion about someone
think about: this is actually thinking about some matter

I can't think of it right now, but maybe I will, if I think about it long enough.

I can think of 10 reasons why you shouldn't text and drive.

I get excited when I think about football season getting underway.

I thought of doing it earlier but..
There is no use of thinking about it again and again.
I thought of you immediately when they said they wanted someone who could speak English. (taken from cambridge dict)
He was thinking about (reminding the time) the time he spent in the army. (taken from cambridge dict)
It still upsets him when he thinks about the accident.
Just dismiss those thoughts from your mind - they're crazy and not worth thinking about.
Funnily enough, I was just thinking about you when you called.
Most people can't be bothered thinking about their retirement 
Chuck sat quietly for hours staring into the distance, thinking of what might have been.

"Hear of" is used when you are talking about the existence of something.
Ex. Have you heard OF that company?
On the other hand, "hear about" requires that you already know the existence of something. You're just being told further news.
Ex. Have you heard ABOUT what happened in Ralph's company?


Isn't it I who told you ? (correct)
He achived what he set out to achive.

Wwhat do think about what she thinks of me? (wrong)
What do u think she thinks of me? (correct)
I wont be avaialble at that time (wrong)
I wont be avaialble at the time (correct). I usually be in office the time.(correct)


 Im weigh 5kg less than u.
 I weigh less than you by 5 Kgs (correct)తేడా తో 
 He is taller than me only by-5inch. తేడా తో 
  He is 5inch taller than me.
  How many points did you win the match by? తేడా తో 
  He won the game with 5 points difference (wrong)
  He won the game by 5 points.
  My friend likes the mango better than I do.
   My friend likes the mango better than I (correct, very old)
 My friend likes the mango better than me.(correct, latest)
 
It is our college which won this kind of award in the state for first time.
Ours is the first college in the state to win this kind of award

I offered him coffee, but because he was angry with me, he refused it. (wrong)
I offered him coffee, but he refused it for he was angry with me. (right)

Just across the road is an ice cream shop. 
Isn't this his watch?  Isn't this watch his?
Some of great movie dancers were students of theirs.
How is this property theirs? 
The wheels are its. Whose is it, then?
How long has it been theirs?
Did she enquire about me? నా గురించి ఆడిగిందా?

Who (Whom కాదు) did you see yesterday
I do not know whom she married(only written) I do not know who she married(spoken)
whom did u meet? (only written) Who did you meet yesterday? (spoken)
Nothing surprising a brother and a sister liking each other

I haven’t had (have not had) any trouble with
it so far
 We have finished our breakfast; We finished
it an hour ago
I have seen the movie; I saw it yesterday
The police have arrested him; They arrested
him last week

Do u have any money? =  Have u any money?
Does he have any program that day? = Has he any program?
He has some money = Has he any money?
He has no money = Has't he any money?


Get & have
----------------------
has ( ఒక status ని కలిగి ఉండటం )
ex: have ur hair cut ( hair cut చేయించుకుని ఉన్న status లో వుండు )
i will have it washed ( ఉతికించి ఉన్న లో status వుంటాను )
He generally has his hair cut by some barber. ( ~ he has a car )
He has me doing all household work.( )

I will get him to give us a list of ten students
 Even if we get the shopman to alter it, it doesn't suit us exactly
 I will get some barbar to cut my hair.
  I want to get some bank to take it on long lease
  I ill get my PA do it, i will getit done..
  
 
I'll have to get it repaired by some good mechanic. 
 The doctor had the patient's ECG taken
I have a hair-cut once a month
He had a hair-cut  yesterday
I got/ had my hair cut yesterday

I have new cloths sewn up/stitched (సొన్) every diwali.
Dad gets new cloths sewn up for me on every festival by our family tailor.
Dada gets my hair-cut done/hair cut every month.
Brother gets mom's phone recharged
I had pooja done for my new bike.
We had/ got our house white washed
get/have ur cloths washed today.
I will have/ get my clothes washed tomorrow.
Have ur bike petrol filled.
Have ur cloths pressed.
I have to get my clothes washed and ironed
He some how got/ had the meeting postponed
 We have to get invitation cards printed

I want to have/ get it sold by our mechanic and buy a new one.



make me
-----------------------
The teacher made him study as he doesnt like to have him aste his time.
Hari made the little boy walk the whole distance
In government offices the staff make people wait
Dont make him cry.
He made me to pursue this course. (wrong, to never comes after make)
He made me pursue this course. (correct)

have me:
dad didn't like to have me wasting my time when the exams are so close ( నేను time waste చేయటానికి అయన ఒప్పుకోలేదు ).
He would have me going around places.
 My mom doesn't have me leave my books either
 My dad has me doing all kinds of jobs at home
He will not have me doing any job. 
Hari's wife has him do/ doing all the work
The teacher had the boys decorate the school.
The husband had the wife wash / washing and iron / ironing all his clothes.
The husband had his clothes washed.
The husband had his wife wash/washing the cloths. (made his wife wash..)
The husband had his clothes washed by his wife. (made his wife wash..)

I want to have it sold.
I want to have it sold by our mech.
I want to have our mech sell/selling it 

U have to have them do their work "on time".
I dont want to have u do all this work.

Diff b/w "make someone do x" &  "have someone do x":
-------------------------------------------------------
My dad wwould always have me going around places. ( నేను ఊళ్ళ చుట్టూ తిరగటం ఆయనకి ok he lets me)
My mom doesn't have me leave my books ( she doest letme)

make: బలవంతంగా, ఒక శిక్ష లాగా  an explict expr that sounds like u r forcing/or literally maing them do something.
have: డబ్బులిచ్చో, నచ్చచెప్పో, మమూలుగానో it just stresses on the status of having somthing done. U just let/dont let them do something. 
	it also means making someone do soethign but with consent.
Ex: He made his wash his cloths.
	He had his wife wash his cloths.
	
	He made the barber cut his hair (wrong)
	My dad has me go around places ()

u better buy that book (wrong) u had/have better buy that book (correct)
I want paper. Have you any?
Are u in today?
Mom is out.
I came to your house yesterday, u ere out.

It was raining the whole day yesterday (wrong)
It was raining the whole of yesterday
There was no rain whole of yesterday.

 What a sight you are! what happened(ఏంటిదంతా ఇలా వున్నావు )

 My regards/ best wishes/ wishes/
enquiries to the members of your family ( అడిగినట్లు చెప్పు ) 
 
Advise = to give advice
నేను ఫోటో తీయించుకోవాలి 
I haveto get myself photographed
I have to get the entry made/ recorded in my service register
I have to get my hair cut.
I want to get my bike repaired.
Can you get it done?

Having gone to Hyderabad, he could not meet the CM (hyd వెళ్లి కూడా )

alwways use "shall" with i, we  in questions.
Ex: Shall i come, shall wwe go.?

I shall, We shall : Not sure
I will, we will: For sure, denotes the willness of the speaker
He/she/It/They will : Not sure
He/she/It/They shall : For sure
Ex: I will buy a car soon. (a decision, for sure)
I shall buy a car. (not sure)
You shall be here by 7pm (be here for sure)
She shall come, ofcourse. She has promised me. He shall join us too(for sure,he will join)
You shall stay here as long as I want you to. (u should)
) You shall be here.(command)
b) You shall finish.(command)
c) You shall not go on leave.(command)
d) You shall stay.(command)
You shall not smoke here(command)
No candidate (he/she) shall bring any slips of paper into the exam hall.(command)
They shall not come to the party.

I shall be happy to see u getting good marks, mom will be happy too ( భావాలు, అనుభూతులు, మనోస్థితులు )
We shall be disappointed if u dont come.
I shall be grateful to u.



i) I/We shall and you, he, she, it and they will- indefinite future
ii) I/ We will:
	a) Determination 
	b) Intention
	c) Promise
iii) You, he, she, it and they shall
	a) commands/orders 
	b) Definite future


He seems to have done it.
They appear to have killed the tiger
I like to have gone with them.వెళ్లి వుండాలని అనుకుంటూ = I should have gone with them
She likes to have sung పాడి వుండాలని అనుకుంటుంది = She thinks she should have sung
I object to being treated as a stranger.

Sometimes even our personal
tailor can get the clothes spoilt.

heap: గుట్ట 
There are heaps of dresses lying on the racks at rock bottom prices.

go for: choose చేసుకోవటం, ధరకు పోవటం , వర్తించటం 
The cheap shirt is already going at the elbows ( పాడైపోతుంది  )
His three hundred sq. yd. site goes for more than Rs. 80 lakh
When you buy a bike, go for one that gives good mileage
It doesn't go for more than Rs. 2000. 
what goes formen goes for women too

go: చెల్లటం
Anything goes in politics.
Whtever he says goes

go in for: to choose something and enjoy doing it a profession, game, hobby..etc
Indians go in for cricket.
Most graduates nowadays are going in for Software jobs.

go with: suit 
Any shirt goes with this pair of trousers
Cofee doest go with buttermilk.


His jeans has started going at the knees చినిగిపోయింది, పాడైపోయింది  
I bought the type only two months ago, but it is already going. చినిగిపోయింది, పాడైపోయింది  
The tube in the front room is gone పాడైపోయింది 

Take (somebody) amiss : తప్పుగా అర్ధం చేసుకొను, అపార్ధం చేసుకొను
Plz dont take me amiss, i am not interested to come.
If you don't take me amiss, you look awful in this shirt.

Take (somebody) for (something): ఒకరిని గురించి అనుకోవటం , అభిప్రాయపడటం /
Ex: I dont take him for an ordinary man.
What do u take me for? నా గురించి ఏమనుకుంటున్నావ్ ?
Dont take me for an idiot. 
 He is not the good guy you take him for నువ్వు అనుకునేంత మంచివాడు కాదు 
 
 
abegging: గిరాకీ లేకపోవటం 
They were all going abegging
Tomatoes in this season are abegging.
Seats in a number of engineering colleges are going abegging 
easier said than done
To strain every nerve and muscle = ఒళ్ళు దాచుకోకున్నా కష్టపడటం 
He is .. for the project.

Take life: to kill someone
Take (one's) life : to suiside
Ex: He took the life of pranay.
He took many police officers lives.
The boy took his life fearing the exams.
 Unable to bear the separation from her lover, she took her (own) life .

 Take/have pity on: ఒకరి మీద జాలి పడటం 
 He took pity on the old woman and put her in an old age home
 None takes pity on him.
 Have pity on old man and leave him.
 
 
 to take place: సంభవించటం, జరగటం 
 The marriage took place yesterday
 The accident took place when I was on my way to college
 When the theft took place, everybody was at home 
 A great incident took place in the city of MP yest.
 When did the meeting take place?
 The interview lasted for 2 hrs.
 
 put across: to explain
 How good they are at putting across even complex ideas to students
 He put across his ideas to me in a convincing manner

will bring-along( కూడా తీసుకురావటం  ) ur friends? 
come along: తో కలసి రావటం , progress
U want to come along?
He takes his dog along on his morning walks
Take along some books on the journey
Smitha said she would accompany me to the movie if her cousin came along
Ho long is the course going to last?
He has been attending to my bike for a long time now and has taken a good care of it.
Ho is the work coming along?
The movie is coming along nicely says the director
Things are coming along well for him in his career

పెళ్లి ఎలా జరిగింది ? 
How did the marriage occur? (wrong) How was the marriage (wrong)
How did the marriage go off? (correct) Oh, it went off very well. Oh, it was splendid.
He went to a movie last night (correct)

We shifted to a new house (wrong). We moved to a new house.(correct) We are moving into our new house.(correct)
Can u lend me some money?
I borrowed this book from him
They moved a long ago, they no longer stay here. (shifted a long ago wrong)


No matter how much costly it is (too long) 
Howmuchever costly it is , u should buy it! (short & sweet)
Howmuchever u try to educate them, they dont change
Howmuchver u grow in your career, there is always someone above you.

How is it you are here?/What brings you here?
మీరు  మాములుగా  పుస్తకాలు  ఎక్కడ  కొంటారు? 
where doya buy books generally ? (wrong) where doya buy books usually ? 
I usually "start-for" office at around 12:30

Turn on the tap please, I need some water
As soon as you "draw" enough water, turn it off.
We draw water from the tap/ the well/ the river etc

The temparature is high outside (wrong) It is hot outside. (correct)
Hi Naresh, how goes Life? No regrets. Getting on
My bike broke down on my way to office.
It is an auspicious day, lets not make love today.
Whom do you meet every sunday? or who doya meet.
How did you do in yesterday's exam?
Hpoe i shall be fortunate enough to get seat in IIMs
I wish i had appeared for CAT exam. (search gg)
Maduhra is on the banks of krishna river
When are your classes every day? when do ur classes start everyday? hen is ur college?
I am at home in the evenings
I remember now నాకు  ఇప్పుడు  గుర్తొస్తుంది 
Fans give air.
1. When will he be here?
2. How long will you be in Hyderabad?
3. Will the book be with you tomorrow?
4. I shall not be here for long?
hot /cold/chill/freezing outside.
5. We shall all be in Hyderabad tomorrow.
6. It will be hot for another two days.
7. I will be in the theatre in another 10 minutes.
8. What will be your next step?
9. Nobody will be here tomorrow.
10. How long will she be here?
11 what time were they here yesterday
I have had this car for 2 yrs now. (no need of for the past 2yrs)
Do his friends help him?
Why do you waste time?
We have been to goa
I have been to home for lunch.
I am being good to you.
He is being harsh
Do you walk everyday along this road? No. Usually I walk along the college road.
I feel like going to a movie.
Ho about a cofee? How about a movie this evening?
Do i seems to be a fool?
It appears to be a snake, but it is just a rope
It appears that he always drinks
You don't (do not) seem to understand my point.
He is standing still చలనం లేకుండా  like a statue for so long.

which book? The book kept on the table. The book u have asked for.
which flat? The flat above flat 13
which book? The book given to him. 
who? The man seen near the school. 
which book? The book torn by the child.
wwhich movie? The movie released yesterday
He had been killed before he was thrown on the railway track
It is time we left = It is high time we left (time దాటిపోయిందని )

Get used to/habituated = అలవాటుపడటం 
I have got
used to the hot weather here 



May you live long! 
May your business prosper!
May you celebrate many more birth days like
this! 
మర్యాదగా. కఠినంగా కాకుండా orders ఇవ్వటానికి  
You may not leave office before 5 
You may not smoke here
You may use my phone if you want
  May
you have a happy journey and may
you study well and prosper 
 May you live long in
health and happiness!
 Till then you may wait outside.
You may sit in the front room. You
may not leave here till 5, even after
the interview.
Sravan: When may I know the result?
Bhavan: Well, you may not expect it before tomorrow evening.

After having waited (for ages) for you, కళ్ళు కాయలు కాచెట్టు 
I was just thinking of going away.


i) తీగ వంగింది  = the wire bent
ii) కాలు విరిగింది  = the leg broke
iii) చీమ మునిగింది  = The ant drowned.
iv) పుస్తకం చినిగింది  = The book got torn.

 a) It may rain (doubtful)
b) It might rain (Highly doubtful)

 Sunil may come this evening రావచ్చు 
 Sunil might come this evening రావచ్చేమో
 He fears it might affect his heart...
 
 Walk/drive down this street till end and turn to the left and take a bus to koti and get off at bigbazar and 
 Walk along in the direction the bus goes. U will find few shops.
  walk down = walk along = walk up the road
  The building is at the bend of the road=
You find the building 
at the point where the road takes a
bend. 
That's news. The fellow didn't even call to tell me of it.
Drive along, proceed till you see a temple with a large neem tree behind it/ at the back of it. Go on further along/Go further down the street.
You need not walk further than the statue Then turn left. 
Mumbai is farther
from Vijayawada,
than from
Hyderabad

My hard work has paid off = మంచి చేసింది / లాభం చేసింది 
How come = ఎలా 
 How come you are here?
 How come you don't know this? 
  he admitted me into / to this
college.
news papers carried the ads
about the entrance exams. 
 She is taking lessons in music/ dance, etc:

  Join a School= joined in a school kaadu
 There is a
Coconut tree in front of our home
She is taking a course in Software
I did much better than I had expected.
How did you fare in the exams?  I fared well in the exams
Lets see how he will fare in the game.


behind = at the back of
beside = next to
 The cloth shop is next to the jewellery on the left of/ on the right of it 
 Close by = near by = close to = near =

Hold: పెట్టటం , to conduct
Our lecturer is holding a special class
today. He insisted that everyone of us
turned up for the class
 
There is an exhibition held in the city.
 
 
 
Passive voice:
--------------------
spoken english
milk sold here
tailoring taught here
tailoring work done here
The man is seen here everyday
Torn paper
Your cloths are torn
What r doing? Dont u see, I am studying.
Oh, are you? Where is your brother?
what do I see in that glass there? కనిపిస్తున్నది ఏమిటి?
What is it you see there?

Can't you be patient? ఓపిక తో ఉండలేవా ?


has to vs is to:
-----------------------
has to indicates obligation
is to indicates "some thing about to happen"




has vs was:
------------
has had = had (still valid)
Ex: I have had my lunch. = I had my lunch 
My bike has had some trouble = My bike had some trouble

if u r not specifying a time then use has else use "was"
also "had" must be used if u saying that some event occured before another event in past.
Ex: 

She has bought a car
She has bought a car recently
She bought a car yesterday
He has gone outside
U  have already had 2pegs.
He went ouside in the morning.
He told me that he had passed the test.
I had gone there before he reached.
But when he brought the lunchbox, i had already had my lunch.
He had had a scooter before he bought the car
How many days after your dad left, was he born/did he take birth?
I knew he only had stolen my book.
I know u have stolen my book.
Sunil told me he had seen you
 By the time I reached the station, the train
had left
The Moghuls had ruled India before the
British ruled it
He told me that he had passed.
She had worked as teacher before she got married


He has been working here since 2002, since august, since jan1-1990,for 2years, 2 hours.

Eversince:
Eversince i started working, we have had no financial crunch.
Ever since he came here, he has had health
problem
The book was badly written
The movie was badly taken.

keeping on doing something: ఒక పనిని అదే పనిగా చేస్తూ ఉండటం 
There's no use keeping on telling me to adjust with the food
He keeps on smoking though his health is bad
Though the teacher punished him, he
keeps on talking

would, used to:
------------

for = because/ since/ as
---------
You must hurry for there isn't much time left?
He can play well for he is tall
Let's stand in the shade of the tree for it is very hot here
 I need water for I am thirsty
 
 
 as son as/ as fast as/ as such/as if/ in such a way that/ so as to/ so..that
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
He is not "as serious about studies" as he was in the past.
 He is not as serious as he was about his studies in the past. (wrong)
 It is not so easy as u think.

he s not as good as u think.
He cant play as good as me.
U cant reach ur destination so fast as by a flight, if u travel by a bus. (my own, needs correction)


as if = as though:
---------------
You talk as if you didn't waste time at al
 He feels as if I were responsible
 U cant hold me responsible for this.
 He behaves as though he could not get on
without servants

could have/would have/should have/must have
--------------------------------------------
he must have done it.వాడే చేసుంటాడు 
he could have done it. చేయగలిగి ఉండేవాడు 
he would have done it. చేసుండేవాడు 
he should have done it చేసుండాల్సింది 

he could have been a manager.
I wouldn't (would not) have been late
Sonia Gandhi would have been the prime
minister


 I would have gone away, but I
thought I would wait for another half
an hour.
1) I would have been here on time.
2) I would have gone away.
3) You would have missed me
4) I wouldn't (would not) have been late
5) I would have brought him along.
6) It wouldn't have won the match.
7) I would have watched the match

But for the British rule, India would have progressed a lot
If not for british rule, India would have progressed a lot
But for my help, he would not have
passed

She could have been the Prime Minister
If I had not given her a lift, she couldn't have
been here on time

Had it not
been for the teachers, many could
not have passed
I left out two questions. If had answered them, I could
have scored still higher

get along: సాగిపోతుంది/గడిచిపోతుంది 
How is life? Just getting along.

get on: సాగిపోతుంది/గడిచిపోతుంది 
Just getting on. ( బాగానే/కులసగానే )
He is getting on well.
The couple were unable to get on, unfortunately. They applied for a divorce.

puddle wheels are too rusty ( దమ్ము చక్రాలు )
 He knows tractors of any make.

get at: to understand
 I am unable to get at what he says
Get across: 
 She has a knack of getting her ideas across to the students
A news paper ad is the best way to get across your message
He is unable to get across  his ideas to people 

You should have been more careful.
You should have taken her to the doctor as soon as she fell ill. You should
not have neglected it.


 He might have been out of town or
he might have forgotten
I myself have been very busy this
week. Otherwise I might have
reminded him.
 I now feel that we might not have
missed him if we had reminded him
of it

 If the mob had not become violent the police
might not have opened fire 
 If he had been in Hyderabad, he
would have called me.

. It hardly takes her 10 minutes to walk home. So she must
have reached home by now.

She must have waited long for me

At the most: మహా ఐతే 
Ex: The owner did't agree to return the advance. He said, at the most he could only accespt the delay.
At the most what could happen? 
Sir, plz exchange this book for a pen.


if u/he had ... i would have:
-----------------------------
I would have waited, but it would have
been too late by then.

 If you had
told me earlier I would have waited
for you at home.
If I had thought of it earlier, I would
have called you
 You would have met me, if you had come
there.
2) I would have taken you to a movie, if we had
met
If I had got you over the phone, we would
have seen the movie

if i were
-----------------
 if I were you, I wouldn't try to meet him.
If I had his power, I would help everyone that came to me.
OGod, if only i was in that position i would help him.
 If only today were a holiday, I would take you to him. 
 If I could, I would.
  If Laxman were here, we would thrash u.
  This is the third cell you have lost. If
you were careful, you wouldn't lose
them ( జాగర్తగా వుండవు కదా అని అర్ధం )
If I had enough money, I would first
buy such a car
If I didn't attend, he would be disappointed.వెళ్తున్నాను అని 
 If wishes were horses, beggars would ride
  he studied well, he
would pass. చదవడు కదా 
If everyone paid taxes properly, India could
be rich పే చెయ్యరు కదా 
What would your father think, if he saw you
here?


బాగుండేది :
-------------------------
How I wish we hadn't had those exams. ఎంత బాగుండేది !
How I wish today were a holiday! ఎంత బాగుండేది !
Oh man, i ish u hadnt bought this!అరే, కొనకపోయుంటే  బాగుండేది 
I wish u had brushed.
I wish you didn't come here 
I wish they were here

 
it would have been nice if i hadnt joined this college (wrong)అవ్వకుండా  వుంది ఉంటే బాగుండేది /అవకుండా ఉండాల్సింది 
I wish I hadn't joined this college. (correct)
But for my father, I wouldn't have joined here
If not for my father, I wouldn't have joined here
I wish i hadnt given much of a lenience to him from the day 1.



i wish i were
--------------------
 If I were the owner, I would keep it
cleaner than I would keep my own
home. You wouldn't see even a
speck of dust on it
Wouldn't it be better if we gave them.

It's (high) time u did something:
----------------------------------
It's (high) time (that) he started for college =  It's Time he started for college 
It's (high) time (that) you consulted a doctor =  It's Time u had consulted a doctor.
 It's Time he learnt manners.
Time we started serious preparation

 start at leisure.నిదానంగా బయల్దేరు 
 
 
 No movie nowadays is coming with strong story lline. Nor do most of the audiences seem to expect that.
 I heard him saying he is droping off his plan.
 We hear pp say that they were cheated
 He doesn't know Telugu; he doesn't know
Tamil either
He joined that school, and so did his sister.
He studies well, so does his brother.

A: Mine is an imported watch.  B: so what? so is mine!
A: I am so haapy B: so am i!



more than:
------------
I know it is not worth more than 500.
We can't take liberties with him as we used to, with his predecessor

He is more of a singer than a SE.
Ppl like cricket than fotball.
No other game is played
so much as cricket in India
 India is not as/ so rich as America
I often see more people playing cricket than
football
There are more cricket fans than football
fans in India
Suman is not so/ as tall as Pavan.
 but they are not so highly paid as cricketers are.
 He was junior to me
 She looks a little older than she is.
 I am slightly older than her (she).
But now she looks older than me (I)
 I've often wondered is he older or
younger than you?
No other animal in the world is so (as) strong
as the Elephant
No other democracy in the world is as (so)
large as India
 He is as tall as I am/
He is as tall as me (both are correct)
b) She is as old as he/
She is as old as him. (both are correct)
Who is the taller of you two? 
 Who is the taller of us two

 food here is better than
that in any other restaurant in this
area

నిన్న మీరు రవితో నన్ను అతనితో కలిసి hyd వెళ్ళమన్నారట ?
It seems that (Apparently), yesterday u told ravi that i (should) go along with him to hyd? (ok)
It seems that (Apparently),  u told ravi yesterday that i (should) go along with him to hyd? (much better)

Apparently u told ravi yesterday that.., dint u?


నేను ఎవరితో మాట్లాడమంటే వారితో మాట్లాడతావా ?
Wwill u speak to whoever i ask u to?


మొన్న మీరు krishna తో ఇవాళ కలవమన్నారట?
It seems, the otherday you told krishna to meet you today (ok)
It seems, you told krishna the otherday to meet you today  (better)

He started early lest he should miss the
train = He started early lest he miss the
train.
 He wore a sweater lest he should catch cold

 
 Back track on offer/ promise/ word: నిలబెట్టుకోకపోవటం 
 They backtracked on the offer made.
 He didnt stand by his word.
 He couldnt keep up his promise
 We demanded that the raise of wages from a back date.
 Kumari issued a cheque carrying a back
date

There is no sugar in the bowl.
There isn't any sugar in the bowl 

He is at his best while acting tragic roles 
He is at his best in dancing.

such that/so that:
--------------------------
He is such a good
man that everyone
likes him.
b) She drives so slow
that even a bullock
cart can over take
her 
He is studying very hard so that he will be able to 
score high


as x as :
 I haven't spent as
much as I did earlier.
You don't buy as much as I do

A snake crawled by me; it didn’t hurt me,
though. I shudder (ఒళ్ళు భయంతో జలదరించటం ) whenever I remember it



Stand straight and say "i have done this".


APJ kalam lead a austere ( ఆస్టియా  : నిరాడంబరమైన ) life.

Colossal: extremely large or great
Ex: a Colossal stattue in murudesar.
a colossal amount of mail

Relish: ఆస్వాదించు, to enjoy happily.
We relished the food at the restaurant
b) Narada relished creating quarrels 
c) We relished his speech yesterday 

Ooze: చిక్కటి ద్రవం నెమ్మదిగా కారటం
Blood was oozing out of the injury -
b) The vada was oozing oil =
c) Pus oozed from the wound =


The under privileged: సమాజంలో మిగతావారికన్నా తక్కువ అవకాశాలు, వస్తులు వున్నవారు, వెనుకబడినవారు అనవచ్చు 

You are rundown (నీరసంగా  వున్నావు  ), aren't you? Your weiry face  (అలిసిన మొహం  )teels that.

What wree the rewards?
A: More than anything the satisfaction
of having served the under privileged people of a remote village

