The family built their house near a paddy field to realize a long-pending dream, but the floods have devastated it.

it was a little something in daddy Jonas’ hands that got everyone talking!

They are just as debilitating and corrosive to a person’s wellbeing.

soldiers gave a gun salute and silence fell over the crowd as former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's mortal remais were 
consigned to the flames on Friday evening. He has always been gracious.

It was a sea of white, with most mourners dressed in the collour of mourning to remember the man who wove together pragmatism and his vision for an inclusive India. Some could be be seen wiping their tears.

I am not politically inclined.

joined the RSS in 1947, rose through ranks to become a stalwart of the BJP.

Some clambered over the neem tree outside to have a glimpse of the body.



torrential rains have wrecked havoc 
to felicitate him on his 60th birthday 

eagle-eyed fans had spotted the pair snuggling up 
Swami Agnivesh was allegedly heckled and assaulted near the BJP office. The video showed some people heckling the 79-year-old social activist
My pagdi fell down and they started calling me a traitor
Kerala:Death toll rises to 164
receiving grave critism

it was Priyanka's family who insisted on hosting the Jonas family in India to get formally acquainted with them. 

a review by disaster authorities under MHA found fault with the state for not 'gradually releasing' water from about 30 dams in anticipation of the rains. 

have condemned the abductions of kin of policemen.


====================

I had gone to the kitchen in the first floor wading through rain water 

The 85 year old man was survived by his daughter.

Rainfall has subsided a bit

where more than 320 people have died in devastating floods and landslides

She hails from a wealthy family.

In connivance with bank officials, they managed to raise  land loan.

They fabricated land documents pertaining to  2 plots.

Areas of inundation.

Milestones streawn across the school premises.

Girls must take an oath pledging not to get married before 18.

The girl was betrothed at the age of 4.

No ATM to be replenished with cash after 8pm.

Two guards accompany the notes in transit.

While there's no dearth of dresses that one can choose from to look stunning, some styles are always more preferred over others for their versatility. 

Tax experts warn that it has become easier for the department to detect fraudulent claims.
                                                                        --------------------
Tax experts have warned that falsifying information in the tax returns can have seriuos implications. 

He used abusive words/ used foul language (బూతులు మాట్లాడాడు )

Let me know upfront

Ranveer Singh is known as one of the most energetic and charismatic actor in bollywood

He knows perfectly well how to keep everyone entertained.

Bachnas are admired couples 
the actor has nailed every character he has played

I cant wait for going for a holiday now



