stumble upon:  to discover something by chance, or to meet someone by chance
come across, bump into.

Ex: Workmen stumbled upon the mosaic while digging foundations for a new building.

fumble: 
   1. తడబడు to have difficulty saying or thinking of suitable words 
   Ex:  I was fumbling for the right word.
        My mind went blank, and I began to fumble for words.
   2. to do something awkwardly
   Ex: I fumbled with the lock.
       He fumbled in his pockets for some change.
       She fumbled around/about in her handbag, looking for her key.
       They fumbled around/about (= moved awkwardly) in the dark, trying to find their way out of the cinema.



Surge:  a sudden and great increase
Surging fuel prices and a weaker rupee are hurting Indian airlines.
An unexpected surge in electrical power caused the computer to crash.
She was overwhelmed by a surge of remorse (a sudden increase of an emotion).
There has been a surge in house prices recently.
The surge in the power supply knocked out all the computers.
The surge in US share prices reverberated across the globe.
A special system prevents the circuitry being tripped accidentally by a power surge or lightning strike.
This new surge of interest in religion is perhaps a reaction to the the spiritual wasteland of the 1980s.
At the end of the game, there was a surge of fans onto the field.
A tidal surge (= sudden and great rise in the level of the sea) caused severe flooding in coastal areas.

reverberate: ప్రతిధ్వనించు, దద్ధరిల్లు 
News of the disaster reverberated around the organization.
The surge in US share prices reverberated across the globe.
If a loud, deep sound reverberates, it continues to be heard around an area, so that the area seems to shake


remorse: regret, a feeling of sadness and being sorry for something you have done:
He felt no remorse for the murders he had committed.
After the argument, she was filled with remorse.


drench:పూర్తిగా తడిచిపోవు to make someone extremely wet:
Ex: 
A sudden thunderstorm had drenched us to the skin.
The athletes were drenched in/with sweat.
The rain drenched my clothes.



pretext: నెపం, a cause especially -ve.
Ex: releasing the solider will remove any pretext for continuing attacks.

on the pretext of : కారణంతో, నెపంతో a pretended reason for doing something that is used to hide the real reason
Ex: 
I go out on the pretext of getting some food to eat for MOM, but go for a smoke.
The theif pretended to be of a police.
I called her on the pretext of needing more information.
The cheating wife slipped out of the temple on the pretext of needing to go to rest room.

illicit:forbidden by law, illegal
Ex: illicit drugs

thrash: 
beat (a person or animal) repeatedly and violently with a stick or whip.
a violent or noisy movement of beating or thrashing

accomplice: a person who helps another commit a crime.

Ex: 
Thrashing waves
fearing she and her lover would be thrashed, wanted to escape before villagers reach the spot and she severed his penis.

sever: to seperate by cutting especially suddenly with power.
Ex: 
The cheating wife severed part of the husbands penis following a scuffle.
The knife severed an artery and he bled to death.
Her foot was severed from her leg in a car accident.
Electricity cables have been severed by the storm.

slash: cut with a wide, sweeping movement, typically using a knife or sword.
Ex: slash costs
she tried to kill herself by slashing her wrists

charge with : కేసు రాయటం
When the wife filed a complaint, the Police charged the husband with attmptive murder case.

ensue: caused, resulted
Ex: 
In the scuffle that ensued, Senthamarai’s dhoti fell off 
Chaos ensued when schools run by one company were all suddenly closed.
After his outburst, a long silence ensued.

vested interest: స్వార్థ a personal reason for involvement in an undertaking or situation, especially an expectation of financial or other gain.
Ex:
As both a teacher and parent, she had a vested interest in seeing the school remain open.
banks have a vested interest in the growth of their customers
vested interests of trying to create an atmosphere of fear and disharmony on social media.
The girl replied... "i know your vested interests."

Aggravate: (aaagravate) to make a situtation even worse
Ex: 
Attempts to restrict parking in the city centre have further aggravated the problem of traffic congestion.
The treatment only aggravated the condition.
If you climb the mountain with this injury, it will even aggravate.

chaos (కయోస్ ): గందరగోళం a state of total confusion with no order
Our house is in complete chaos at the moment.
There was chaos in the theatre when the bomb went off.
Computer failure has created chaos in the passport office.
Police are clearing traffic chaos now.
The unprecedented rains caused chaos in the city.

vicious (విషస్):
deliberately cruel or violent

Ex: The vicious dog.

synonyms: 
	brutal, ferocious, savage, violent, dangerous, ruthless, remorseless, merciless, heartless, callous, cruel, harsh, cold-blooded, inhuman, fierce, barbarous, barbaric, brutish, bestial, bloodthirsty, bloody, fiendish, sadistic, monstrous, villainous, murderous, homicidal, heinous, atrocious, diabolical, terrible, dreadful, awful, grim; informalbeastly; archaicfell, sanguinary
"there was a vicious killer at large"
malicious, malignant, malign, spiteful, vindictive, venomous, poisonous, baleful, virulent, pernicious, backbiting, rancorous, caustic, mean, cruel, bitter, acrimonious, hostile, hate-filled, menacing, nasty, unpleasant.
defamatory, slanderous;

ferocious:
savagely fierce, cruel, or violent
Ex: 
a ferocious beast,a ferocious dog,a ferocious battle
She's got a ferocious temper.
The ferocity of the attack shocked a lot of people.

very strong and powerful, very great; extreme
Ex: A ferocious headache, A ferocius wind

fierce:
physically violent and frightening
Ex:
a fierce attack/battle
Two men were shot during fierce fighting last weekend.

very strong and powerful, very great; extreme
Ex: A fierce headache, A fierce wind, There is fierce competition for H1b


exasperate:రెచ్చగొట్టు to make someone very annoyed, usually when HE cant solve a problem (
-----------
Ex:
Exasperate the barrer by asking the items available repetedly.
I dont wanna exasperate the populace(జనాభా), replied the duke.
His assistant’s carelessness is exasperating him.

provoke: to cause a -ve reaction, MAKE some one ANGRY
 syn: instigate, invoke, rouse, set off, stir up, whip up
 
It was a vicious-looking dog and I didn't want to provoke it.
He was clearly trying to get at me but I refused to be provoked.
I was provoked into the argument.
Demonitization in india provoked an outcry.
It provoked severe criticism.
These murders have provoked outrage across the country.

instigate: initiate
 Ex: 
 The government will instigate new measures to combat terrorism.
The revolt in the north is believed to have been instigated by a high-ranking general.

wrath: extreem anger
--------
Ex:
The people feared the wrath of God.
He left home to escape his father’s wrath.

Retaliate: ప్రతిఘటించు 
---------------

spur: accelerate,ENCOURAGE
-----
Spurred by her early success, she has written 4 more novels.
Increased sales has spurred the  

persuade: ఒప్పించు
---------
to make someone do or believe something by giving them a good reason to do it or by talking to that person and making them believe it

Ex:
These consultancy people persuaded me to register their services by repetedly calling and messaging that their services are best 
and after paying money they dont care even to answer your phone .

Here parents persuaded her to marry their relative.

If she doesn't want to go, nothing you can say will persuade her.

adamant: చెప్పినా వినకపోవటం impossible to persuade, or unwilling to be persuaded or unwilling to change an opinion or decision
--------
Ex: 
dieticians are adamant,they suggest to never skip breakfast
The mayor adamantly refused to consider a tax increase.
She was adamant about becoming a dancer.

expedition: యాత్ర, speed in doing something
--------
typically long and big (involving many vehicles) journey for a particular purpose. 
the people, vehicles, animals, etc. taking part in an expedition

Ex: 
We are going on a shopping expedition on this sunday.
British expedition to Mount Abu.
Milatory expedition
The first expedition to moon was performed by NASA.
We will deal with your order with the greatest possible expedition.


imminent: likely to happen very soon
---------
Ex: 
A strike is imminent.
Due to global water pollution, water crisis is imminent.


pragmatic :practical
Ex: 

He took a pragmatic decision to settle the lawsuit as it is gonna take years for verdict.
Knowledge of chronobiological patterns can have many pragmatic implications for our day-to-day lives.
The answer must be pragmatic right?.
We must work on pragmatic solutions to respond to the real problems of our citizens. 

Trial:
 LEGAL the process of examining a case in a court of law and deciding whether someone is guilty or innocent.
 When a case comes to trial, it is brought to a court and the person who has been accused of a crime stands trial 
 (=appears in court)
 
 Ex: He was apprehended and lodged a lawsuit in the court, but the case hasnt yet come to trial.
 
apprehend: కస్టడీ లోకి తీసుకోను 
to catch hold of somebody that didnt obey the law
Ex:
Police had apprehended the criminal.

apprehend: దిగులు
worry or fear that something unpleasant is going to happen in future

Ex:
He felt sick with apprehension 
Out director apprehended that the poor code quality may hit us at any time. 

accuse: ఆరోపణ
to say that someone has done something morally wrong, illegal

Ex: 
Are you accusing me of lying?
The surgeon was accused of negligence.
He was accused of murder/crime.
I got lot of acquisitions from his employees for not taking good care of them.

suspect: అనుమానితుడు 
accuser: those who are accusing
accused: ఆరోపణలు ఎదుర్కొంటున్న వ్యక్తి ( those who are being accused )
victim: బాధితుడు

indictment : నేరారోపణ,లోపం 
(of law) a formal statement of accusing someone
The charges on the indictment include murder and attempted murder. 

a sign that a policy,process, system, society, etc. is bad or wrong: లోపం   
Ex: 

This seems to me to be a damning indictment of the government's education policy.
It just proves the indictment of CTS process.

conviction :నేర నిర్ధారణ (దోషిగా నిరూపించబడు) Of LAW being found to be guilty of some crime officially
Ex: 
Since it was her first conviction for stealing, she was given a less severe sentence. 
He has a long record of previous convictions for similar offences. 

2  a strog opinion or belief
3. being certain abt something

He said he was enjoying his new job, but his voice lacked conviction.
religious/moral convictions 
 It's my personal conviction that all rapists should be locked away for life.
 
 Diff between indict & convict
 -------------------------------
 Indictment is the act of officially Charging someone with crime and on the other hand conviction is the act of Proving that 
 a person is guilty of a crime in the court of law. Indictment is approval for investigation and trial.Conviction is when a jury holds
 the person guilty.
 
 
acquittal: నిర్దోషిగా నిరూపించబడు
He hoped for an acquittal. 
The bad news is that, even after four months after their acquittal, their bail money has still not been returned.


apprehend,accuse=indict,acquittal,conviction:
-------------------------------------------------
He was apprehended by police while he is in his house, then sent to the court where the lawyer from the victim's familiy accused him 
of murder. He was convicted and jailed for 2 months, later when applied in high court he was acquitted.

The jury acquitted the defendant because there wasn't enough evidence to convict him of the crime.


 

malleble: Anything that can be easily changed, influenced,controlled.
Ex: zinc is a malleable substance.


subjugate : అణిచివేయు
Ex:
She subjugated herself to her mother's needs. 
They are bravely resisting subjugation by their more powerful neighbours. 
Reporters must subjugate personal political convictions to their professional commitment to balance. 

deleterious 
whittle down
adamant: dieticians are adamant: never skip breakfast
temporal-dependent

nocturnal:active at night
diurnal: active during the day
crepuscular: active only during dawn & dusk

Ex: I am nocturnal like a bat where mom is diurnal like a bird. Microlight flyers are crepuscular.

therapeutic :causing someone to feel happier and more relaxed or to be more healthy
Ex: I find gardening more therapeutic. The leaf has many thearpeutic effects.


buoyant: float/high/optimitisc
------
Ex:
a buoyant substance
The meeting ended in a buoyant mood.
The petrol prices are expected to remain buoyant.

pervasive: పరివ్యాప్తమగు present or noticeable in every part of a thing or place

Ex:  (pervasive * rare)
A pervasive smell of diesel.
As a result, agriculture was less pervasive in the mountains than in other regions.
The influence of Ramgopal is pervasive in his interview.

