confiscate: జప్తు to take a possession away from someone when you have the right to do so, usually as a punishment and often for a limited period, after which it is returned to the owner:
		Ex: Miss Edwards confiscated my phone!
	            His passport was confiscated by the police to prevent him from leaving the country.
		    The pub owners confiscated his cigerette packet
		    The IT depertment confiscated some of the documents from his room.



rendition: కూర్పు the way something is rendered to the audiance
	    a particular way of performing a song, piece of music, or poem
	Ex: I like the rendition of Rajamouli
	    Live rendition of the song "ore piya"
	    ‘a wonderful rendition of ‘Nessun Dorma’’

sedate: గంభీరంగా calm, dignified, avoiding excitement or great activity and usually calm and relaxed
	Ex: My dad always looks sedate.
	    The fight against a chemical storage site has transformed a normally sedate village into a battleground.
	    The speed limit is a sedate 55 mph.
	    The sedate way of Mohd Rafi's singing

somnolent: నిద్రావస్థ sleepy, almost sleeping, causing sleep:
	Ex: a somnolent summer's afternoon
	    the somnolent villages further north
	    By her somnolent expression he could see she was still tired.

incarcerate: to put someone in a closed place and prevent them from leaving it
	Ex: We were incarcerated in that broken elevator for four hours.
            Bottles of alcohol were found in the hospital room of an incarcerated minister in Karachi.
	
revoke: to officially say that an agreement, permission, a law, etc. is no longer in effect
    Ex: Revoked suspension, tender, contract, license.
    
exult: ఆనందించు to express great pleasure or happiness, especially at someone else's defeat or failure:
	Ex:     They exulted at/over their victory.
		She seems to exult in her power.
		‘It was, almost, as if he was exulting in our miseries.’
		she exulted after her first book became a bestseller
		Alberta teachers weren't the only ones exulting in their court victory last week
		
convolute :మెలికలు, compilcate Make (an argument, story, etc.) complex and difficult to follow. 
	Ex: The layout of the track is convoluted, but it's essentially a clockwise loop that runs through the outer areas of the building.
	    The picturization of the scene further convoluted the story.
	    convoluted rules
	    The process for selecting an artist to design the memorial was somewhat convoluted.

ironically: ఐరానికల్లి, కామెడీ ఏందంటే..  to express something that happened unexpectedly   
             in a way that is different or opposite from the result you would expect:
	     Ex: ironically, the rescue craft which saved her was the boat she was helping to pay for
	         Ironically, his ability as an inventor made him a poor administrator, and he had one business failure after another.

adorn : to make something more attractive by putting something on it
	Ex: The bride's hair was adorned-with white flowers.
	    Examples of his work adorn the walls of the school.
            Large scale paintings were commissioned to adorn the castles and palaces of the military rulers.


contentious: వివాదస్పద	something that can cause an argument; controversial
	Ex: The MP is known for his contentious remarks
	    By all accounts, her husband was contentious and physically abusive

Vitriolic: Mean, nasty, and caustic statements as the worst acid, vitriolic words can hurt feelings, break hearts, and even lead to violence.
	Ex: vitriolic attacks on the politicians
	    He launched a vitriolic attack on the prime minister
	    The UP CM launched vitriolic attack on Rahul Gandhi, comparing him with “naali ke keede” (sewer bug).



Urge & appeal: 
Stalin had appealed ( విజ్ఞప్తి  ) to the cadres not to embarrass/unease him by touching his feet. Deprecating the age-old practice, 
He urged ( కోరారు ) “Let us give up the servitude ( దాస్యం )of touching the feet to grab attention and cooperate to foster to a good culture.”
 
servitude:the state of being slave/under the control of someone else and of having no freedom
	Ex: In the past, the majority of women were consigned to a lifetime of servitude and poverty.
	 peasant servitude 

exciting : ఉత్తేజపరుచు 
	to give rise to ones feelings to become stronger
	to cause strong feelings or eagerness of anything like sex,suspense,happyness.etc
	to cause something to happen
	Ex: sexual excitement
	an exciting movie/soundtrack
	You're going to Africa? How exciting!
	It was a really exciting match.
	It promises to be a really exciting match.
	Are you doing anything exciting this weekend?
	Microwaves excite the food particles resulting in heat.
	This product has excited a great deal of media interest.
	The statement excited new speculation that a senior official may be about to resign.
	She has a mischievous desire to excite my jealousy.
	

Recuperate: Recover or regain (something lost or taken)
	    is to get something back that you have lost — could be good health, or money lost in a bad investment. 
	    to become well again after an illness
	    Ex: 
	    IT jobs are very hectic, weekends allow one to recuperate
	    She has been recuperating from a knee injury.
	    Christmas is a time to recuperate
	    After leaving the hospital, he continued to recuperate at home.



staggering: very shocking and surprising
	Ex: A staggering bill of 3000rs poer bill!
	    It costs a staggering $50,000 per week to keep the museum open to the public.
	    A staggering 47 stolen bikes were recovered by police.
	    
Appaling: very bad, aweful
	Ex: The appaling behavior of hospital staff taking a selfie with dead body was shocking to learn about.
            his conduct was appalling
	    the cat suffered appalling injuries
	    appalling weather
	    Prisoners were kept in the most appalling conditions.
	    He witnessed some appalling acts of barbarism during the war.
	    He witnessed some appalling acts of barbarism during the war.
	    Conditions in the prison are said to be appalling.
	    Your table manners are appalling - don't you know how to use a knife and fork?
	    After her appalling behaviour, we had no option but to dismiss her.
	    The standard of cleanliness in some of these restaurants is frankly appalling.
	    The number of casualties was appallingly high in both wars.
	    The whole play was appallingly (= very badly) acted.



cordon off: to close an area to people and vehicles:
	Ex: The building was cordoned off and only employees with building IDs could enter.

dangle: to hang or cause to hang loosely
	keep someone dangling = Keep someone in an uncertain position.

	Ex: dew drops dangling from the tip of the tea leaves
	they were dangling their legs over the water
	A loose wire was dangling from the wall.
	He dangled the puppet in front her.
	‘he was kept dangling—offered a place in the team and then dropped’



daunting: discouraging through fear
	  making you feel slightly frightened or worried about your ability to achieve something

	  The country was faced with the daunting prospect of overcoming four decades of division.
	  Something daunting can scare you off. If you have a lot of studying to do, it may seem like a daunting task.
	  Often used in the phrases “daunting prospect” and “daunting task,” daunting describes something that you are not looking forward to doing. 
	  Having to fill out complicated tax forms every year is a daunting task for many people.
	  
	  Ex: no challenge is too daunting for his prodigious memory.


wink: to close one eye for a short time as a way of greeting someone or showing friendliness, sexual interest, etc., or of showing that you are not serious about something you have said:
	Ex:
	Laura winked at me as Stephen turned his back.
	For a second I thought he was being serious, but then he winked at me.
	Priya warrior wink scene in her debut film. The court further added that the wink during picturisation of a popular folk song 
	can never be termed 'blasphemous'
	
blink: 

sneak: to do something in a secret/stealthy way
	చాడీలు చెప్పుట to secretly tell someone in authority, especially a teacher, that someone else has done something bad in order to 
	cause trouble

	Ex: I managed to sneak in through the back door while she wasn't looking.
	    Jan doesn't have a ticket but I thought we might sneak her in.
	    I thought I'd sneak up on him (= move close to him without him seeing) and give him a surprise.
	    She was always sneaking on other kids in the class
	    I sneaked out by the back exit
	    she sneaked a glance at her watch
	    I noticed him sneak a look at what I was writing.
	    Hero sneaked a look at heroins waist.



reconnaissance: రీఖాణసెన్స్  
		1. is checking out a situation before taking action. Often it’s used as a military term, 
		but you could also do reconnaissance on a new employee before you hire her, or a resort before you take a vacation.
		Reconnoitering is just a fancy way of saying that you’re checking something out in a sneaky way. If you like a girl in 
		your class, you might ask a friend to do some reconnaissance to find out what she’s like. 
		
		2. Military observation of a region to locate an enemy and ascertain strategic features
		
reconnoitre: రికన్నాయిట
	Ex: they reconnoitred the beach some weeks before the landing
		

Exaggerate: to make something seem larger, more important, better, or worse than it really is
	
blasphemous: considered offensive to God or religion:
	Ex: A blasphemous remark made by Gogineni.
	

Hotelier: హోటెలియెర్ A person who owns or manages a hotel.

heave:  to move something heavy using a lot of effort
	   to throw something forcefully, especially something large and heavy
	 If something heaves, it makes one or more large movements up and down:


	Ex: she heaved the sofa back into place
	    he heaved himself out of bed
	    Make an effort to vomit; retch.
	    Produce (a sigh)
	    
	   ‘my stomach heaved’
	   She picked up a heavy book and heaved it at him.
	   As the wind increased, the deck of the ship began to heave beneath his feet.
	heaved a sigh of relief after court granted bail.

embezzlement: to secretly take money that is in your care or that belongs to an organization or business you work for:
	Ex: She embezzled thousands of dollars from the charity.	 
	    They were arrested for embezzlement of company funds.
	     The scandal led to the end of Lalu's reign as chief minister. 
	     
Fodder: animal food (food that is given to cows, horses, and other farm animals)

pester: to behave in an annoying manner towards someone by doing or asking for something repeatedly
	Trouble or annoy (someone) with frequent or persistent requests or interruptions.
	Ex: The girl had told her parents that the accused had been pestering her as she stopped talking to him.
	The kids keep pestering me to buy them a new video game.
	she constantly pestered him with telephone calls
	At the frontier, there were people pestering tourists for cigarettes, food, or alcohol.
	John has been pestering her to go out with him all month.
	
Harass: Subject to aggressive pressure or intimidation
	to annoy or trouble someone repeatedly
	Make repeated small-scale attacks on
	Ex:
	the squadron's task was to harass the retreating enemy forces
	He claimed that the police continued to harass foreign journalists.
	She felt she was being harassed by the coach’s constant demands.

intimidate: to frighten or threaten someone, usually in order to persuade them to do something that you want them to do
	Ex: They were intimidated into accepting a pay cut by the threat of losing their jobs.

scapegoat:a person who is blamed for something that someone else has done
someone who is blamed or punished for another’s faults or actions:
Ex: The captain was made a scapegoat for the team's failure.

Blame:(for) to think/say that somebody has done something bad/mistake/wrong and they are responsile for it
	Ex: Don't blame me (= it is not my fault) if you miss the bus!
	    Hugh blames his mother for his lack of confidence.
	    It's tempting to blame television for the increase in crime.
	    I dont want to take this blame on me!
	    Anything that goes wrong in the office is blamed on Pete.



inundate: (ముంచెత్తటం ) Overwhelm (someone) with things or people to be dealt with
Ex: The islands may be the first to be inundated as sea levels rise
    We have been inundated with requests for help.
    If the dam breaks it will inundate large parts of the town.
    
martyr:మార్టర్ A person who is killed because of their religious or other beliefs.
              Kill (someone) because of their beliefs.
	      A person who displays or exaggerates their discomfort or distress in order to obtain sympathy.
	EX: the first Christian martyr
	   she wanted to play the martyr
	   Four policemen martyred in terrorist attack in J&K. Soon after the incident whole area has been cordoned off to  nab terrorists.


prima facie:  as it seems at first sight(
		= based on what seems to be the truth when first seen or heard; 
		accepted as correct until proved otherwise.):
    Prima-facie, police suspect that the children indulged in some mischief and Barman “strangled them to teach them a lesson”. 
    There is prima facie evidence that he was involved in the fraud.
    When both boys fell unconscious, Barman felt guilty and committed suicide by hanging himself, said police.
    On the question of whether the simultaneous opening of dam shutters led to the tragedy, he said, 
    “Prima facie from what people tell me, that seems to be so.
    
	

prevail:   be larger in number, quantity, power, status or importance, to control,influence (prevail over)
	   Synonyms: dominate, predominate, reign, rule
	   They complained that corporate interests often prevailed over the needs of the individual.
	   Ex: prevailing wage (public work wages paid to the majority of workers in a specific area)
	   
	   prove superior (win)
	   The champion prevailed, though it was a hard fight
	   If you prevail over someone, you win
	    
	   use persuasion successfully (prevail upon)
	   He prevailed upon her to visit his parents
	   
	   Let’s hope that common sense prevails.
	   In spite of injuries, our team prevailed and went on to win.
	   
	   to get control or influence in a particular situation:
  	    prevail over
	    They complained that corporate interests often prevailed over the needs of the individual.
	
	    formal to win in an argument, court case, etc.:
	    prevail in 
	    If they prevail in the court case, they could receive up to $10,000 each.
	
	    to be common among a group of people or in an area at a particular time:
	    This attitude still prevails in parts of Europe.
	      prevail among sb Secrecy prevails among the banking lobbies.
	   
	   
succumb: లొంగిపోవు to lose the determination to oppose something; to accept defeat:
	to die or suffer badly from an illness /injury
	Ex:
	The town finally succumbed last week after being pounded with heavy artillery for more than two months.
	I'm afraid I succumbed to temptation and had a piece of cheesecake.
	Thousands of cows have succumbed to the disease in the past few months.


remember: గుర్తు ఉండటం 
can't remember: గుర్తు రాకపోవటం, గుర్తు పెట్టుకోలేకపోవటం 
dont remember : గుర్తు లేకపోవటం 

        Ex:
	I remember coming back to check on my neighbours on an infla rubber tube. I had to use electric cables to pull myself towards 
	the neighbourhood.
	He will be remembered as a politician who ma
	I cant remember people's names.
	Do you remember the first time we sat under the stars, listening to Beethoven's Ninth?
	Do you remember when we first ate wild mushrooms? ~ Yes, I remember.
	I can't remember where I've put the spare set of car keys. Have you seen them?
	Will you remember to collect your suit from the dry-cleaners or shall I do it?
	She remembered that she was going clubbing that evening and cheered up.
	I am trying to recollect, but i cant remember.

remind: గుర్తు చేయుట   
	Ex:     Remind me to send Denny an email.
		I reminded them that the meeting was postponed.
		I shouldn't need to remind you to wash your hands before you sit down to eat.
		She reminds me of The Princess Royal. They are so alike in looks and appearance.
		Whenever i think of my village, it reminds me of my childhood.
		
recall:  గుర్తు తెచ్చుకోవటం  
	Ex: Can you recall where u have seen the keys last time?
	    As far as i can recall, he is 
	    The Prime Minister recalled his visits to France and the six meetings he had had with the French President.
            I seem to recall that you were against the idea of Henry joining the Board of Directors. 
	    As far as I can recall, you were warned three times that you would lose your job if you persisted in being late. 
            I distinctly recall warning you about this.








jump/go through hoops: కిందా  మీదా పడటం, To face or have to go through many challenges in pursuit of something that one wants, especially challenges that 
                    seem arbitrary or excessive. 
		    Ex: The boss made me jump through a lot of hoops to earn this corner office, believe me!
		    I had to jump through many hoops to reach this position.
		    if they jump through enough hoops, they can get work visas

bystander: a person who is standing near and watching something that is happening but is not taking part in it.
	synonyms: onlooker, passer-by, non-participant, spectator
	Ex: "water cannons were turned on marchers and innocent bystanders.
	    Many innocent bystanders were injured by the explosion.

passer-by: దారిన పోయేవాడు someone who is going past a particular place
	Ex: The gunmen opened fire, killing a policeman and a passer-by.
	     A passer-by saw smoke and called the fire department
	


dormant: not active or growing, but having the ability to be active at a later time
	Ex: a dormant volcano, Authorities reopened a dormant investigation of the company.


intrigue: (ఇంట్రీగ్ ) to interest someone a lot, especially by being strange, unusual, or mysterious
          a secret plan to do something, especially something that will harm another person (కుట్ర)
	Ex: I was intrigued by his slow, deliberate way of talking and the serious look in his eyes.
	Throughout history, people have been intrigued by the question of whether life really exist elsewhere in the universe.
	A tale of political intrigue
	

exhilarating: making you feel very excited and happy
              making feel very happy, animated, thrilling
	Ex: The two hour rafting was reaaly exilarating.

Dearth: scarcity, shortage
	Ex: derth of vocabulory, Dearth of great minds
	


presence of mind: 
	the ability to make good decisions and to act quickly and calmly in a difficult situation or an emergency
	
Ex: He said that the bus driver had the presence of mind to get the people off the bus.
	He showed a good presence of mind...


Adroit: ఆరితేరి ఉండటం, పండిపోయి ఉండటం  skilful in some subject
	Ex: You can find many adroits in java. 
	Rigorous practice can make you adroit.
	She became adroit at dealing with difficult questions.
	An adroit technician, An adroit reply.
	
Shrewd : Having a clear understanding and good judgment of a situation, resulting in an advantage
	smart
	showing mental alertness and calculation and resourcefulness
	Ex: He was shrewd enough not to take the job when there was the possibility of getting a better one a few months later.
	She is a shrewd politician who wants to avoid offending the electorate unnecessarily.
	It was a shrewd move to buy your house just before property prices started to rise.

quick-witted : (క్విక్ విటెడ్ ) 
	able to reply in a clever way or funny way without thinking for a long time
	to react quickly and skillfully
Ex: A quick-witted response.
He is handsome, well spoken, intelligent and quick-witted

witty: చమత్కారమైన (punch dialogs)using words in a clever and funny way
	Ex: a witty comment/remark
	    He was witty and very charming.

perspicacious: (kshus) సూక్ష్మబుద్దిగల "shrewd" and "wise." 
	Ex: A perspicacious child can't be fooled when her parents try to keep a secret by talking in Pig Latin.
	    A perspicacious politician
	    One does not need to be especially perspicacious to discern that fact.
	    
discerning: 
	    Ability to distinguish between good and bad by right perception,insight. 
	    showing good judgment, especially about style and quality
	    characterized by careful evaluation and judgment
	    Discerning people are good judges of quality.
	    
Ex: People with discerning tastes, discerning eye. A discerning customer.


acumen: చాతుర్యం skill in making correct decisions and judgments in a particular subject, such as business or politics:
	Ex: She has considerable business/financial acumen.
	     Mr. Estavez has real business acumen.
	     His negotiating skills and business acumen helped in restructuring the local economy.
	
ingenious: very skillful, intelligent
        Ex: The umbrella was ingeniously devised to fold up into your pocket.
	     Children's rooms were ingeniously designed to promote learning.




exciting: pragliding,river rafting, trkking, palolem, munnar.

Thrash: బాదటం Beat (a person or animal) repeatedly and violently with a stick or whip.
Ex: A student was mercilessly thrashed by his school teacher in the classroom.
WOMEN THRASHED YOUTHS WITH SLIPPERS FOR SMUGGLING LIQUOR IN MP’S CHHATARPUR


  The man was arrested for allegedly  abusing the girl.

humiliate: Make (someone) feel ashamed and foolish by injuring their dignity and pride.
Ex: The bus driver humiliated musim woman asking her to take out gurkha followed by calling her a Terrorist. 

followed by: తర్వాత after

Mitigate: ఉపశాంతిచేసుట, తక్కువచేసుట  Make (something bad) less severe, serious, or painful.
Ex: We are doing ever possible thing to mitigate this unprecedented disaster.
    ‘drainage schemes have helped to mitigate this problem’

heart-throb: A man who is physically very attractive, so that a lot of women fall in love with him and excite romantic feelings in women.
Ex: The hero went on to become the heartthrob of his already crazy fans.

Lodge: To take room in hotel and join
I booked the room on 15th and lodged in the room on 17th. 

Ravage: Cause severe and extensive damage to, noun: destruction
Ex: rain-ravaged districts  of kerala 

grim: worrying, sad/serious, without hope
	very unpleasant or ugly
	Ex: The future looks grim.
	Her face was grim as she told them the bad news.
	Grim-faced.
	Grim-looking boy
	The situation has been particularly grim in Idukki, Ernakulam, Palakkad 
	
wreck: to destroy or badly damage something completely, a vehical/house..etc that was badly damaged.
	Ex: The explosion shattered nearby windows and wrecked two cars.
	    Our greenhouse was wrecked in last night's storm.
	    The children have wrecked my camera.
	    Divers exploring the wreck under the sea managed to salvage few coins.
	    the salvaging of treasure from wrecks (A ship destroyed at sea)
	    The burned-out wrecks of two police cars..
	    A road wreak (a massive road accident)
	    the blast wrecked 100 houses
	    
devastate: to destroy a place or thing completely or cause great damage
           Cause (someone) severe and overwhelming shock or grief
	Ex: Kerala winessed devastating floods recently, homes have been ravaged by violent floods
	     We are not taking cooked food as they are perishable items. Items like bread, milk and water are the need of the hour.
	   the city was devastated by a huge earthquake
	    she was devastated by the loss of Damian
	    The tornado has already left a trail of devastation through four states.
	    
havoc : భీభత్సం, గందరగోళం Great confusion and disorder, especially causing trouble
	Ex: Even a small drizzle causes  trafic havoc in Hyd.
	    the hurricane ripped through Florida causing havoc
	    The storm wreaked (= caused) havoc in the garden, uprooting trees and blowing a fence down.
	    The storm created complete havoc in the park.
	    The delay caused havoc with their travel arrangements.

toddler: పసిపిల్లల a young child, especially one who is learning or has recently learned to walk 
	Ex: Are these toys suitable for toddlers
	
trail: a path through a countryside, mountain, or forest area, A beaten path through the countryside.
	the smell or series of marks left by a person, animal, or thing as it moves along:
	Ex:     You can walk along a trail, and you can also follow a trail
		a forest/mountain trail, a walking/cross-country trail
		Unusually high winds left a trail of destruction over southern Britain.
		The storm left behind it a trail of devastation.
		A narrow trail of blood led directly into the cave.
		The trail began to steepen near the top of the hill.
		The dogs are trained to follow the trail left by the fox.
		He left a trail of muddy footprints behind him.	

be on the trail of: to be searching for someone or something by examining information you find about where they went:
	Ex: The three men went to the Bahamas, on the trail of a sunken 17th-century galleon full of treasure.	


heart-wrenching story 



She is inconsolable when she says the rain even washed away the certificates.
He is currently lodged in a hotel, shelter.

frenzy: (an example of) uncontrolled and excited behaviour or emotion that is sometimes violent
	In a frenzy, people go into a state of hysteria.
	sharks near tasty fish or teenagers near pizza
	Ex: Sultan’s game-winning shot sent the crowd into a frenzy.
	There was a frenzy of activity in the financial markets yesterday.
	
Frantic: వెర్రిగా emotionally out of control
         (hurry) to do something in a hurry,confised/unordered way esp bcoz of (more action & littile order) uncontrolled anxiety, emotion.
	 
	Ex: made a frantic last-minute search for the lost key.
	    made a frantic search for the lost child frantic cries for help
	    made a frantic search for the missing child.
            They were making frantic preparations for the party.
           a frantic attempt to finish on schedule
	   Where on earth have you been? We've been frantic with worry.
	   I received this frantic call and my hands started to shiver - “Your daughter fell off from a moving train "
	   They made a frantic search for the missing child.
	    WHen mother loses her child, she's frantic. A scene is frantic if there's lots of action with little order.
	    Rescuers made frantic efforts to dig out people buried by the mudslide.
	    Share prices have soared to a new all-time high in a day of frantic trading on the stock market.
	    Rescuers were engaged in a frantic all-night effort to reach the survivors before their supply of air ran out.
	    On Christmas Eve, the scene at the mall was frantic with shoppers desperately searching for their last few gifts
	    
	    
she boarded an overcrowded train, unfortunately she lost her grip and got thrown out. Her severely bruised body was found bleeding between the tracks.



accost: to go up to or stop and speak to someone in a threatening way
		to approach someone aggressively or confront them in an inappropriate way
	Ex: I'm usually accosted by beggars and drunks as I walk to the station.
	  As he was apporching his car after pissing, he was accosted by three gangsters,The gangsters rob him of his debit cards. 

Engulf: చుట్టుముట్టాడటం to surround and cover something or someone completely:
	Ex: Controversies have always engulfed popular authors.  
	   The flames rapidly engulfed the house.
	    The flames rapidly engulfed the house.
	   Northern areas of the country were engulfed by/in a snowstorm last night.

plagiarism : ప్లేజారిజం practice of using another person's ideas or work and pretending that it is your own
	Ex: Chetan Bhagat has been a victim of this accusation a lot of  .. 
	    The writer was accused of lifting content from various websites.author was embroiled in a plagiarism 

Embroil: ఇరుకున పెట్టటం  to drag someone into a mess, cause someone to become involved in an argument or a difficult situation:
	Ex:  She had no desire to embroil herself in lengthy lawsuits
	
Hand fans are affordable and easy to make 

Relish: enjoy something immensely. 
	Ex: He alays relishes challenges
	    I always relish my work
	    I have no relish for hunting and killing animals.
	    You may relish eating icecream, or you may relish taking an afternoon nap
	    Bollywood stars came to relish the event.

cherish: పదిలంగా ఉంచుకొను, చూసుకోను to love, protect, and care for someone or something that is important to you
	Ex: I always cherish this moment throgh out my life.
	    Freedom of speech is a cherished (= carefully protected) right in this country.
	    I cherish the memories of the time we spent together.
	    

autistic teacher in 'Tare Zameen Par' 


Reckon: Be of the opinion, guess, estimate, think
Ex: 
We reckon at least about 5,000 acres of coffee estates in coorg have been sevearly hit.
I reckon it's going to rain.
How much do you reckon (that) it's going to cost?
"Can you fix my car today?" "I reckon not!
She's been promising to pay back the money for six months, but I reckon she's just stringing me along.(guess)
He reckons all policemen are fascists and bullies. (Be of the opinion.)
he reckons that the army should pull out entirely (Be of the opinion.)
I don't reckon he would win

reckon with: A thing or person that is not to be ignored or underestimated.
Ameer khan- A filmmaker, an actor and a person who fervently believes in fighting for social causes, 
Aamir Khan has become a force to reckon with.

fervently: String & sincere in a way that shows that your beliefs are strong and sincerely felt

	Ex: he fervently believes he's doing the right thing.
	    The nationalists believe fervently in independence for their country.
	    She has fervently supported the president in the past.
	    I fervently hope he's right.
	    "I'd like to do anything I can," one young man told me fervently.
 	    a fervent supporter of the communist party
	    It is his fervent hope that a peaceful solution will soon be found.

slam: to move against a hard surface with force and usually a loud noise 
      criticize
	The wind made the door/window slam (shut).
	Close the door carefully, don't slam it.
	He slammed the brakes on (= used them quickly and with force) when a child ran in front of his car.
	I had to stop suddenly, and the car behind me slammed into the back of me.
	Supreme Court slams Bihar government on rape incident
	Although the reviewers slammed the play, the audience loved it.


 would OTHERWISE have :
 -----------------------------
 So far, nine dogs and one cat (that otherwise would have died) have been treated successfully.
 The competent opponent, (who would OTHERWISE have been an excellent candidate), has been seriously ill.
 Babies have been vaccinated (who otherwise would have died). 
 Refugees have been clothed and fed (who otherwise would have starved).
 Thank god he managed to apply car brakes in time, (which otherwise would have just bumped into the tree).
 The university received the benefits of [the interns'] unpaid work, (which otherwise would have required paid employees)
 This alternative approach allows easy RD (which otherwise would have been difficult to study).
 Mary, (who would otherwise have gone to the party), stayed home as it was a snow storm.
 John, (who otherwise would have spoken up in the meeting), remained silent.
 The constant construction might create more obstacles (than otherwise would have been); nevertheless, I loved the space.
 
 

corroborate:కోరాబరేట్ బలపరచుట,  దృఢపరుచుట to add proof to an account, statement, idea, etc. with new information:
	Ex: Recent research seems to corroborate his theory.


mourn: to feel or express great sadness, especially because of someone's death:
PM Modi mourned the demise of Karunanidhi.
Frank is mourning the death of his father.
She was still mourning for her brother.
They mourned the passing of an older, simpler way of life (= felt sad because it had stopped existing).
Thousands of mourners poured into the streets of the national capital as Vajpayee's cortege made its way from his home tto the BJP headquarters 


blizzard:  a severe snow storm with strong winds
	Ex: We once got stuck in a blizzard for six hours, Blizzard conditions made the main roads almost impassable.
	    were caught in a blizzard 

apparently: అట , it seems 
	used to say you have read or been told something although you are not certain its true
	Ex: Apparently it's going to rain today.
            Apparently he's had enough of England and is going back to Australia.

         used when the real situation is different from what you thought it was:
         You know I told you Alice's party was on the 13th? Well I saw her last night and apparently it's on the 14th.
         She looks about ten, but apparently she's 14.
         I thought they were married but apparently not (= they are not married).

	నిజమే అని అనిపించటం used to say that something seems to be true, although it is not certain:
	Ex: Apparently the injury is caused due to accident.

outlier: anything that is different from others
	Ex: People who live past 100 are genetic outliers.
            Find out outliers in this page
	    FB,Apple banned him, Google is the only outlier in not taking any action against him.
	    

prejudice: partiality
	    an unfair opinion/belief formed without enough thought/reasoning/knowledge
	    Preconceived opinion that is not based on reason or actual experience.
	    to unfairly influence a person so that an unreasonable opinion or decision results
	    
	Ex: Racial prejudice
	     If you have a negative attitude towards someone based on race or cast rather than personal experience, 
	     you might be accused of prejudice. the Latin praejudicium means "judgment in advance." 
	     A racial prejudice is a negative attitude towards a group of people based on race — not on direct knowledge or experience. 
	     If you prejudice someone, you cause them to have a negative attitude towards someone else. 
	     An official investigation would have a prejudicial effect on the company’s reputation.
	     Lawyers are not allowed to bring certain types of evidence such as rumors into a trial because it might prejudice the jury.
	     
obsess: పట్టి పీడించు Preoccupy or fill the mind ofsomeone continually to a troubling extent
	to worry constantly
	Ex: Their relationship obsessed him for years.
	    She used to obsess about her weight.
	    Mom is obsessed about your marriage.

rampant:getting worse quickly in an uncontrolled way
	Ex: 	Why sexual abuse is rampant at orphanage homes? such orga's licenses have to be revoked.
	        rampant corruption
		Rampant inflation means that our wage increases soon become worth nothing.
		He said that he had encountered rampant prejudice in his attempts to get a job.
		Disease is rampant in the overcrowded city.
		 

proffer: అందించు Hold out or put forward (something) to someone for acceptance.
	Ex: She proffered a glass of wine to him.
	    he proffered his resignation letter to his boss.

dire: Extremely serious or urgent / poor quality
	Ex: Our coleague is going through dire situations and she needs your help, Please proffer your contribution to her.
	
onus: responsibility 
 	Ex: The onus is on you.

ragpicker: చెత్త ఎత్తుకునేవాళ్ళు 
litter: చెత్త Rubbish such as paper, cans, and bottles left lying in an open or public place.
	An untidy collection of things lying about.
Ex: always clear up after a picnic and never drop litter
    Littering plastic bottles is punishable offence, but such microlevel vigilance by authorities is unfeasible.
    Litter bin

scapegoat: బలిపశువు
shoddy: badly made,An inferior quality
	Ex: China items,platform items are typically shoddy. shoddy exam invigilation
	
draconian: డ్రkoనియన్ (of laws or their application) excessively harsh and severe.
Ex: Banning internet across Rajasthan to prevent cheating in exams is as draconian as it gets
Nazis destroyed the independence of the press by a series of draconian laws

heinous: హీనs, హేయమైన , దారుణమైన utterly odious or wicked
     Ex: A heinous crime, A heinous sin, wicked thoughts, 
     

despicable: దారుణమైన, హేయమైనది deserving hatred
	Ex: A descpicable crime, morally despicable, raods in despicable condition.
     
     
ambush: Make a surprise attack on (someone) from a concealed position
	Ex: Kidnapper waiting in ambush, they were ambushed.
	An assault story: He was ambushed and beaten to ground, he was struck multiple times as the assailants screamed "Go back to your country"
	
	strike: 
		1. Hit forcibly and deliberately with one's hand or a weapon
		2. Accidentally hit (a part of one's body) against something
		3. Come into forcible contact or collision with
		
		Ex: he raised his hand, as if to strike me, man was struck on the head
		    she fell, striking her head against the side of the boat
		    he was struck by a car in Whitepark Road
		    
     
nasty: రోతయైన,చండాలం Very bad or unpleasant
Ex: nasty weather, nasty fellow (చండాలుడు ), nasty 
    her stories are very nasty, full of murder and violence
    She is a nasty foul-mouthed old lady
    
wicked: చెడ్డ Evil or morally wrong, Extremely unpleasant
        Ex: despite the sun, the wind outside was wicked

sordid: అనైతిక dirty and unpleasant, morally wrong and shocking
	There are lots of really sordid apartments in the city's poorer areas.
	another sordid saga of abuse of inmates in a women’s shelter was revealed on tuesday.

unscrupulous : నీతి నిజాయితీ లేని Having or showing no moral principles; not honest or fair.
 	Ex: unscrupulous landlords,  unscrupulous business owners

strenuous: Requiring or using great effort 
	Ex: the govt made strenuous efforts to ..



protagonist: 1. The leading character/one of the major characters in a play, film, novel, etc.
	     2. The main figure or one of the most prominent figures in a situation
	Ex: the novel's main protagonist is an American intelligence officer
	    in this colonial struggle the main protagonists were Great Britain and Franc

predominant:ప్రధానమైన, primary, Present as the strongest or main element
	Ex: The three predominant colours of this film are black.
	The predominant adverse effect seemed to be depression

befit: to be suitable or right for someone or something
	Ex: When netizens commented on ahishek, he gave a befitting reply to them.

Sober: 
       1. Not affected by alcohol; not drunk 2. తెలివి Serious, sensible, and solemn 
	Ex: It's like watching a sober guy walk his drunk friend home
	    The rhythm is perfect for drunk morons who can't dance when sober
	    30 days of being sober
	    
	    his expression sobered her (verb: Make or become more serious, sensible, and solemn)
	    That brought everyone back into a serious and sober mood
	    This resolution is sensible, it is sober, it is realistic
	2. Make or become sober after drinking alcohol
           Ex: Drinking buttermik will sober him up, I ought to sober up a bit
	   Once you give up drinkining, you need to focus on sobriety.

slack:  not tight; loose
	showing little activity; not busy or not happening in a positive way
	to work more slowly and with less effort than usual, or to go more slowly:
	Ex:
	These tent ropes are too slack - they need tightening.
	Business is always slack at this time of year.
	The job is taking a long time because the workmen are so slack.
	Everyone slacks off/up at the end of the week.
        You'll be in trouble if you're caught slacking on the job.
        Slack off your speed as you approach the corner.
	She is very slack
nagging: persistently painful, persistently irritating someone to do something.
	Ex: nagging wives, nagging pain
	
	
detrimental: Tending to cause harm.
	Ex: 
	Vaping is 95% better than smoking but overdoing it can be detrimental.
	recent policies have been detrimental to the interests of many old people

apathetic: having no concern,care, interest, enthusiasm
Ex: When you are apathetic, u typically look nonchalant.
    it exposes the apathetic nature of the Govt which can put the lives of lakhs of people in disarray by wantonly turning off 
    access to internet just for the sake of conducting exams.
    
    
nonchalant: నాన్షాలాంట్ 
         casually calm and relaxed without displaying anxiety (cool)
	 showing no interest, or enthusiasm
	
	Ex: 
	a nonchalant manner/shrug
	She waited her turn to audition, trying to look nonchalant.
	lions walking nonchalantly across an open field.

shrug: to raise your shoulders and then lower them in order to say you do not know or are not interested
 	"Where's Dad?" "How should I know?" replied my brother, shrugging.
	He shrugged his shoulders as if to say that there was nothing he could do about it.
	Thousands of people are starving to death while the world shrugs its shoulders (= shows no interest or care).
	"What shall we do?" "Don't ask me," she said, shrugging her shoulders.


Conspicuous: very noticeable or gathering attention, often in a way that is not wanted
	His nervousness is conspicuous.
	In China, her blonde hair was conspicuous.
	He tried not to look conspicuous and moved slowly along the back of the room.
        He was conspicuous as usual with a big yellow bow tie.
	This type of bird is very inconspicuous because of its dull feathers.
        At parties, he always stands in a corner and tries to look inconspicuous.


consensus: ఒక నిర్ణయానికి వచ్చు  a generally accepted opinion or decision among a group of people

Ex: 
The general consensus in the office is that he can't do his job.
Could we reach a consensus on this matter? Let's take a vote.
We were unable to reach a consensus about membership fees.
There is little consensus about the issue of smacking children.
We managed to get a consensus about not smoking in the office.
..consensus on how to deal with illegal immigrants


abuse: to use something for the wrong purpose in a way that is harmful or morally wrong knowingly or unknowingly
	her history of drug and alcohol abuse
	She is abusing her power.
	I never expected that he would abuse the trust I placed in him.
	to abuse alcohol
	If you abuse your body now, you'll pay the price later
	The Mayor abused their positions to earn more money.
	a woman convicted of killing her husband, who had physically abused her.
	People who have been abused as children often experience feelings/a sense of worthlessness.
	Mobile phone abuse (char
	ging while talking..over charging , keeping in checst pocket)

reconcile: 
	to adjust/ to compare and try to draw similarities between two things and merge them.
	to find a way in which two situations or beliefs that are opposed to each other can agree and exist together:
	to adjust the way you think about a fact or situation that is opposed to another fact or situation so that you can accept both
	
	Ex: 
	
	Now the tax department is also checking the Form 16 and reconciling it with the income declared in the return.
	How do we reconcile the seemingly contradictory notions of cutting taxes and balancing the budget?

	If two people are reconciled, they become friendly again after having argued so seriously that they kept apart.
	After two years of not speaking to one another, the two brothers were finally reconciled.

	To reconcile yourself to a situation is to accept it even if it is unpleasant or painful, because it cannot be changed
	He has reconciled himself to the loss of the election and is moving on.

	It is sometimes difficult to reconcile science and religion.
	It's difficult to reconcile such different points of view.
	How can you reconcile your fur coat and/with your love of animals?
	They were finally reconciled with each other, after not speaking for nearly five years.


evade : ఇవేde 
	escape or avoid someone or something
	to intentionally not talk about something or not answer something

	Ex: 
	Just give me an answer and stop evading the question!
	The police have assured the public that the escaped prisoners will not evade recapture for long.
	She leaned forward to kiss him but he evaded her by pretending to sneeze.
	An Olympic gold medal is the only thing that has evaded her in her remarkable career.
	Under Section 270A, misreporting of income attracts a penalty of 200% of the amount sought (seek,sought,sought) to be evaded.


stumble upon:  to discover something by chance, or to meet someone by chance
come across, bump into.

Ex: Workmen stumbled upon the mosaic while digging foundations for a new building.

fumble: 
   1. తడబడు to have difficulty saying or thinking of suitable words 
   Ex:  I was fumbling for the right word.
        My mind went blank, and I began to fumble for words.
   2. to do something speak,act awkwardly
   Ex: I fumbled with the lock.
       He fumbled in his pockets for some change.
       She fumbled around/about in her handbag, looking for her key.
       They fumbled around/about (= moved awkwardly) in the dark, trying to find their way out of the cinema.
       
Stumble over: 

	Ex: Imran Khan was administered a long oath by president of Pak. Khan nervous and stumbled over some of the Urdu words of the 
	oath administered to him. 
	
	
 

immaculate: perfectly clean/perfect and without any mistakes
	Ex: 
	dressed in an immaculate white suit
	an immaculate garden
	He gave an immaculate performance as the aging hero.

 mortal remains: dead body
 	Ex: ..in 1947 rose through ranks to become a stalwart of the BJP. It is with profound grief that we inform about the sad demise of Former Prime Minister of India, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, at 05:05 PM.
	We join the nation in deeply mourning this great loss. Atal Bihari Vaypayee’s mortal remains were being taken out of the building, Prime Minister Narendra Modi followed behind,
	Delhi Police had to make elaborate security arrangements. Apart from that only Pandit Nehru’s funeral must have been so large a gathering like the one we saw today
	Not since the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi in May 1991 had Delhi seen such a multitude gather to have a last glimpse of their leader.
 	He will be remembered as a politician who ma..
	turbulent periods 

Exemplary:
	"It was Atalji's exemplary leadership that set the foundations for prosperous and inclusive India

borne: (బోర్న్) carried or moved by a particular thing
Ex: get airborne, waterbourne
I want to be airborne.
The flight fell off from a height of 5foot while getting air borne for mumbai.


Surge:  a sudden and great increase
Surging fuel prices and a weaker rupee are hurting Indian airlines.
An unexpected surge in electrical power caused the computer to crash.
She was overwhelmed by a surge of remorse (a sudden increase of an emotion).
There has been a surge in house prices recently.
The surge in the power supply knocked out all the computers.
The surge in US share prices reverberated across the globe.
A special system prevents the circuitry being tripped accidentally by a power surge or lightning strike.
This new surge of interest in religion is perhaps a reaction to the the spiritual wasteland of the 1980s.
At the end of the game, there was a surge of fans onto the field.
A tidal surge (= sudden and great rise in the level of the sea) caused severe flooding in coastal areas.

plummet: to fall very quickly and suddenly:
	House prices have plummeted in recent months.
	Several large rocks were sent plummeting down the mountain.
	She plummeted to the ground.
	Irani claimed that the Congress chief (rahul)had plummeted to new depths.
	Temperatures plummeted last night.
        The parachute failed to open and he plummeted to the ground.
surge * plummet
	
reverberate: ప్రతిధ్వనించు, దద్ధరిల్లు 
	News of the disaster reverberated around the organization.
	The surge in US share prices reverberated across the globe.
	If a loud, deep sound reverberates, it continues to be heard around an area, so that the area seems to shake
	"Atal Bihari Amar Rahe" reverberated in the air.

remorse: regret, a feeling of sadness and being sorry for something you have done:
He felt no remorse for the murders he had committed.
After the argument, she was filled with remorse.


drench:పూర్తిగా తడిచిపోవు to make someone extremely wet:
Ex: 
A sudden thunderstorm had drenched us to the skin.
The athletes were drenched in/with sweat.
The rain drenched my clothes.


pretext: నెపం, a cause especially -ve.
Ex: releasing the solider will remove any pretext for continuing attacks.

on the pretext of : కారణంతో, నెపంతో a pretended reason for doing something that is used to hide the real reason
Ex: 
I go out on the pretext of getting some food to eat for MOM, but go for a smoke.
The theif pretended to be of a police.
I called her on the pretext of needing more information.
The cheating wife slipped out of the temple on the pretext of needing to go to rest room.

నింద: blame, allegation, accusation, 
illicit:forbidden by law, illegal
Ex: illicit drugs

opprobrium:అప్ప్రోబ్రియం, కళంకం 
	Public disgrace arising from shameful conduct. If you go against or oppose what's good, you might earn opprobrium — the opposite of getting attention for something good. 
	Bad behavior leads to opprobrium. it's something that comes from the inappropriate thing that was done
	Defame
	Ex: the opprobrium of being closely associated with gangsters

Slander: తప్పుడు కూత, అపవాదులు 
	a false spoken statement about someone that damages their reputation, or the making of such a statement:
	Ex: If her accusations are false, she is making a lot of slanderous remarks about a lot of people.
		The police detain individuals who participate in slanderous comments about the government.
		He's launched the most negative, slanderous attacks ever seen in city politics.
		he doctor is suing his partner for slander.
	        She regarded his comment as a slander on her good reputation.
		They were accused of slandering the head of state

slanderous: 
	    a slanderous accusation/allegation/comment
	    Until people can prove their slanderous accusations, I will not believe them.
	    Political campaigns are full of shameless slander

censure: సెంషూర్ , A strong criticism
	Ex: Ministers were censured for their lack of decisiveness during the crisis.

	



thrash: 
beat (a person or animal) repeatedly and violently with a stick or whip.
a violent or noisy movement of beating or thrashing

accomplice: a person who helps another commit a crime.

Ex: 
Thrashing waves
fearing she and her lover would be thrashed, wanted to escape before villagers reach the spot and she severed his penis.

sever: to seperate by cutting especially suddenly with power.
Ex: 
The cheating wife severed part of the husbands penis following a scuffle.
The knife severed an artery and he bled to death.
Her foot was severed from her leg in a car accident.
Electricity cables have been severed by the storm.

slash: cut with a wide, sweeping movement, typically using a knife or sword.
Ex: slash costs
she tried to kill herself by slashing her wrists

charge with : కేసు రాయటం
When the wife filed a complaint, the Police charged the husband with attmptive murder case.

ensue: caused, resulted
Ex: 
In the scuffle that ensued, Senthamarai’s dhoti fell off 
Chaos ensued when schools run by one company were all suddenly closed.
After his outburst, a long silence ensued.

vested interest: స్వార్థ a personal reason for involvement in an undertaking or situation, especially an expectation of financial or other gain.
Ex:
As both a teacher and parent, she had a vested interest in seeing the school remain open.
banks have a vested interest in the growth of their customers
vested interests of trying to create an atmosphere of fear and disharmony on social media.
The girl replied... "i know your vested interests."

Aggravate: (aaagravate) to make a situtation even worse
Ex: 
Attempts to restrict parking in the city centre have further aggravated the problem of traffic congestion.
The treatment only aggravated the condition.
If you climb the mountain with this injury, it will even aggravate.

chaos (కయోస్ ): గందరగోళం a state of total confusion with no order
Our house is in complete chaos at the moment.
There was chaos in the theatre when the bomb went off.
Computer failure has created chaos in the passport office.
Police are clearing traffic chaos now.
The unprecedented rains caused chaos in the city.

vicious (విషస్):
deliberately cruel or violent

Ex: The vicious dog.

synonyms: 
	brutal, ferocious, savage, violent, dangerous, ruthless, remorseless, merciless, heartless, callous, cruel, harsh, cold-blooded, inhuman, fierce, barbarous, barbaric, brutish, bestial, bloodthirsty, bloody, fiendish, sadistic, monstrous, villainous, murderous, homicidal, heinous, atrocious, diabolical, terrible, dreadful, awful, grim; informalbeastly; archaicfell, sanguinary
"there was a vicious killer at large"
malicious, malignant, malign, spiteful, vindictive, venomous, poisonous, baleful, virulent, pernicious, backbiting, rancorous, caustic, mean, cruel, bitter, acrimonious, hostile, hate-filled, menacing, nasty, unpleasant.
defamatory, slanderous;

ferocious:
savagely fierce, cruel, or violent
Ex: 
a ferocious beast,a ferocious dog,a ferocious battle
She's got a ferocious temper.
The ferocity of the attack shocked a lot of people.

very strong and powerful, very great; extreme
Ex: A ferocious headache, A ferocius wind

fierce:
physically violent and frightening
Ex:
a fierce attack/battle
Two men were shot during fierce fighting last weekend.

very strong and powerful, very great; extreme
Ex: A fierce headache, A fierce wind, There is fierce competition for H1b


exasperate:రెచ్చగొట్టు , make furious, to make someone very annoyed, usually when HE cant solve a problem (
-----------
Ex:
you exasperate a busy waiter by asking questions like "what are all the ingredients in the salad dressing?" and making him repeat the specials five times.
I dont wanna exasperate the populace(జనాభా), replied the duke.
His assistant’s carelessness is exasperating him.

provoke: to cause a -ve reaction, MAKE some one ANGRY
 syn: instigate, invoke, rouse, set off, stir up, whip up
 
It was a vicious-looking dog and I didn't want to provoke it.
He was clearly trying to get at me but I refused to be provoked.
I was provoked into the argument.
Demonitization in india provoked an outcry.
It provoked severe criticism.
These murders have provoked outrage across the country.

instigate: initiate
 Ex: 
 The government will instigate new measures to combat terrorism.
The revolt in the north is believed to have been instigated by a high-ranking general.

wrath: extreem anger
--------
Ex:
The people feared the wrath of God.
He left home to escape his father’s wrath.

Retaliate: ప్రతిఘటించు 
---------------

spur: accelerate,ENCOURAGE
-----
Spurred by her early success, she has written 4 more novels.
Increased sales has spurred the  

persuade: ఒప్పించు
---------
to make someone do or believe something by giving them a good reason to do it or by talking to that person and making them believe it

Ex:
These consultancy people persuaded me to register their services by repetedly calling and messaging that their services are best 
and after paying money they dont care even to answer your phone .

Here parents persuaded her to marry their relative.

If she doesn't want to go, nothing you can say will persuade her.

adamant: చెప్పినా వినకపోవటం impossible to persuade, or unwilling to be persuaded or unwilling to change an opinion or decision
--------
Ex: 
dieticians are adamant,they suggest to never skip breakfast
The mayor adamantly refused to consider a tax increase.
She was adamant about becoming a dancer.

expedition: యాత్ర, speed in doing something
--------
typically long and big (involving many vehicles) journey for a particular purpose. 
the people, vehicles, animals, etc. taking part in an expedition

Ex: 
We are going on a shopping expedition on this sunday.
British expedition to Mount Abu.
Milatory expedition
The first expedition to moon was performed by NASA.
We will deal with your order with the greatest possible expedition.


imminent: likely to happen very soon
---------
Ex: 
A strike is imminent.
Due to global water pollution, water crisis is imminent.


pragmatic :practical
Ex: 

He took a pragmatic decision to settle the lawsuit as it is gonna take years for verdict.
Knowledge of chronobiological patterns can have many pragmatic implications for our day-to-day lives.
The answer must be pragmatic right?.
We must work on pragmatic solutions to respond to the real problems of our citizens. 

Trial:
 LEGAL the process of examining a case in a court of law and deciding whether someone is guilty or innocent.
 When a case comes to trial, it is brought to a court and the person who has been accused of a crime stands trial 
 (=appears in court)
 
 Ex: He was apprehended and lodged a lawsuit in the court, but the case hasnt yet come to trial.
 
apprehend: కస్టడీ లోకి తీసుకోను 
to catch hold of somebody that didnt obey the law
Ex:
Police had apprehended the criminal.

apprehend: దిగులు
worry or fear that something unpleasant is going to happen in future
expressed his apprehensions. 

Ex:
He felt sick with apprehension 
Out director apprehended that the poor code quality may hit us at any time. 

dread: డ్రీడ్ to feel extremely frightened about something that is going to happen or that might happen
Ex:  I dread to even think of that.
     His Mom is dreading about his marriage.

accuse: ఆరోపించు ,ఆరోపణ to accuse = allegation
to say that someone has done something morally wrong, illegal

Ex: 
Smriti Irani accuses Rahul Gandhi of disrespecting women.
Are you accusing me of lying?
The surgeon was accused of negligence.
He was accused of murder/crime.
I got lot of acquisitions from his employees for not taking good care of them.

suspect: అనుమానితుడు 
accuser: those who are accusing
accused: ఆరోపణలు ఎదుర్కొంటున్న వ్యక్తి ( those who are being accused )
victim: బాధితుడు

indictment : నేరారోపణ,లోపం 
(of law) a formal statement of accusing someone
The charges on the indictment include murder and attempted murder. 

a sign that a policy,process, system, society, etc. is bad or wrong: లోపం   
Ex: 

This seems to me to be a damning indictment of the government's education policy.
It just proves the indictment of CTS process.

conviction :నేర నిర్ధారణ (దోషిగా నిరూపించబడు) Of LAW being found to be guilty of some crime officially
Ex: 
Since it was her first conviction for stealing, she was given a less severe sentence. 
He has a long record of previous convictions for similar offences. 

2  a strog opinion or belief
3. being certain abt something

He said he was enjoying his new job, but his voice lacked conviction.
religious/moral convictions 
 It's my personal conviction that all rapists should be locked away for life.
 
 Diff between indict & convict
 -------------------------------
 Indictment is the act of officially Charging someone with crime and on the other hand conviction is the act of Proving that 
 a person is guilty of a crime in the court of law. Indictment is approval for investigation and trial.Conviction is when a jury holds
 the person guilty.
 
 
acquittal: నిర్దోషిగా నిరూపించబడు
He hoped for an acquittal. 
The bad news is that, even after four months after their acquittal, their bail money has still not been returned.


apprehend,accuse=indict,acquittal,conviction:
-------------------------------------------------
He was apprehended by police while he is in his house, then sent to the court where the lawyer from the victim's familiy accused him 
of murder. He was convicted and jailed for 2 months, later when applied in high court he was acquitted.

The jury acquitted the defendant because there wasn't enough evidence to convict him of the crime.


 

malleble: Anything that can be easily changed, influenced,controlled.
Ex: zinc is a malleable substance.


subjugate : అణిచివేయు
Ex:
She subjugated herself to her mother's needs. 
They are bravely resisting subjugation by their more powerful neighbours. 
Reporters must subjugate personal political convictions to their professional commitment to balance. 

deleterious 
whittle down
adamant: dieticians are adamant: never skip breakfast
temporal-dependent

nocturnal:active at night
diurnal: active during the day
crepuscular: active only during dawn & dusk

Ex: I am nocturnal like a bat where mom is diurnal like a bird. Microlight flyers are crepuscular.

therapeutic :causing someone to feel happier and more relaxed or to be more healthy
Ex: I find gardening more therapeutic. The leaf has many thearpeutic effects.


buoyant: float/high/optimitisc
------
Ex:
a buoyant substance
The meeting ended in a buoyant mood.
The petrol prices are expected to remain buoyant.

pervasive: పరివ్యాప్తమగు present or noticeable in every part of a thing or place

Ex:  (pervasive * rare)
A pervasive smell of diesel.
As a result, agriculture was less pervasive in the mountains than in other regions.
The influence of Ramgopal is pervasive in his interview.

