breathtakingly beautiful,a haven of peace and tranquility.
a hill station located in the southwestern Indian state of Kerala at 6000ft above mean sea level
in the Western Ghats mountain range. Ppl call it the "Kashmir of South India".
is a favorite destination for honeymoon.

A visit to the town presents visitors with a much needed break, in the lap of mother nature, from their hectic and chaotic city life. 
Pallivasal is untouched by commercialism and revels in its natural beauty and serenity. 
The place is perfect for nature lovers and photography fanatics, owing to its picturesque landscapes and splendid panoramic views.

The Marayoor sandal forest adds a scenic beauty to the hill station and gives a mesmerizing experience to all nature lovers.

Rock climbing, fishing, trekking and hiking are some adventure activities that can be experienced at this exotic location. The excitement to the excursion is added by the Mattupetty Lake which is nestled in the tea estates situated near Devikulam.

Dense tea plantations, woods and small rivulets and rolling hills make this spot ideal for leisure travellers and nature lovers. Photo point as the name states is the most photogenic place situated near Munnar.

Photo point is also known as “Shooting Point” because of its ideal scenic beauty created by silver oak trees and green tea plantations. Photo point is an ideal spot for amateur as well as professional photographers. Surrounded by gardens, tea plantations and streams Photo point in itself appeals to be heavenly.


 loaded with rich flora and fauna. It is also a home to the largest surviving populations of Asian Elephants, endangered Gaurs, 
 exotic Nilgiri Langurs, and lion tailed macaque. The Anamudi Peak is a paradise in the wild, which is covered with evergreen forests with some very beautiful rivers flowing inside the jungle. Tourists take a trek to the top of the mountain and enjoy the sight of beautiful rivers.
 
 When the beautiful sun rays fall on the Kundala Lake, it creates a glittering effect to give tourist heaven like experience and help them enjoy the beauty of Kundala in absolute serenity. The picturesque Kundala lake is surrounded by green valleys and majestic landscapes, that almost every photographer would like to capture in their lenses. To get the most amazing pictures, one must reach this spot early in the morning and see how a blanket of cloud surfaces the lake, when the first few rays of sun makes the atmosphere magical.

South India's largest tea-growing region, are carpeted in emerald-green tea plantations, contoured, clipped and sculpted like ornamental hedges. The low mountain scenery is magnificent – you’re often up above the clouds watching veils of mist clinging to the mountaintops. Munnar town itself is a scruffy, traffic-clogged administration centre, not unlike a North Indian hill station, but wander just a few kilometres out of town and you’ll be engulfed in a sea of a thousand shades of green.

A cup of refreshing and fragrant tea is all it takes to make friends of strangers. Dews on tea-leaves resulting from the hanging misty cover over the tea garden make the appearance of this aspect of human indulgence even more beautiful. 
mountain streams

The area surrounding the place is all hills of Western Ghats, lakes, greenery, wildlife, falls, etc allowing gaps in the consciousness to be filled by the silence of exhilaration. Such musings are impossible when mind is troubled by worries and infested with load of work, which is why Munnar in beautiful Idukki district offers much-looked-for respite.

The place divided in Old Munnar and Munnar is almost self containing when one plans vacation in south- there is past to learn from, present to ponder and enjoy and future that could be visualized from what present stands for and ready to extend. And there is much over and above in the nearby villages and town included in Munnar travel package to make the experience of Munnar as complete as it can be.

A hill destination worth setting of eyes upon!



Apparently, this hill station was once the summer resort of the erstwhile British rulers of india.

Unending expanse of tea plantations ­ pristine valleys and mountains­ exotic species of flora and fauna in its wild sanctuaries and forests ­ aroma of spice scented cool air.It is also an ideal destination for trekking and mountain biking.

Munnar is such a beautiful place that cne cant portray it in a single canvas. Everything and anything here will make us excited. The hills, the mist, the valleys, the streams, the waterfalls, tea plantations, rare flora and fauna.... 

 The beautiful sights of acres and acres of lush green tea plantations will make us realize that we have at last reached Munnar and of course the place is so much known for its tea estates. Neelakurinji, flower which blooms once in twelve years bluish violet spreads across the entire mountain range like a blanket attracts lots of tourists from all over the world.

Among these resorts you can also find affordable and cheap hotels, which suits you the most. All these hotels and resorts will offer you various packages like honeymoon packages, family packages etc and will help you to explore Munnar in a perfect way.

Sprawling tea plantations, picturesque towns, beatuiful lakes and holiday facilities make this a popular hill station. 
Among the exotic flora and fauna found in the forests. The dam offers pleasurable boat rides, enabling one to enjoy the surrounding hills and 
landscape.

It has many attractions like national parks, dams, tea estates and also is an ideal spot for trekking. It is also home to several species of rare butterflies, animals and birds. It offers a magnificent view of the tea plantations caressed by blankets of mists.

It is a place of immense scenic beauty and is often favoured by visitors as a picnic spot.
lush green mountains, is a lush green carpet of tea plants. A trip on the splendid reservoir is an unforgettable experience.
 The Anayirangal dam is surrounded by tea plantations and evergreen forests.The spot is enriched with a panoramic view/scenic view of the Western Ghat ranges

Munnar has a legacy of its own when it comes to different tea plantations. There is a tea museum that showcase different exquisite varities of tea leafs,processing etc.


yes! This beautiful destination has all these and more. It's the place you would love to visit ­ it's the place you would wish never to leave.
 

